中国学生代表施怡聆2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞全文

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
中国学生代表 |施怡聆
Chancellor Tong, Vice Chancellor Lehman, Provost Waley-Cohen, distinguished guests, faculty, staff, family, friends, and all my fellow Class of 2022 graduates,
敬爱的童校长、雷蒙校长、衞周安教务长，各位老师、家人、伙伴，以及2022届的全体同学，
Greetings from Shanghai!
大家晚上好！
Among various fabulous peripheral products of NYU Shanghai, a hoodie with Chinese characters of “global citizen” on the front is rather popular. With all those unique adventures, experiences, readings, and conversations, I have always been thinking about what a “global citizen” really means over the past four years. I recall the first course we all took during freshman year, Global Perspectives on Society, which not only exposed to us how the great minds all over the world pursued their ideal state of the world one after another, but also encouraged us to critically view and challenge those “authoritative ideas.” Every week in our recitation class, we had great discussions with professors and peers across the globe on some of humanity’s core issues. For example, do fairness and justice truly exist? Are democracy and freedom without limitations? How should we optimize the world that we are in?
在纷繁多样的校园周边里，有一款把“世界公民”四个字烫金写在胸前的卫衣颇受欢迎。四年来的所有经历、体验、阅读、对话，都让我不断反思到底什么才是真正的世界公民。回想大一的第一堂课，“全球视野下的社会”课不仅向我们展示了古今中外的先贤们前仆后继的对美好世界的向往和探索，还给了我们批判思考和质疑这些“权威想法”的机会。每周的讨论课上，我们都会与来自世界各地的教授和同学们共同探讨人类社会的核心问题：公平和正义是否存在？民主和自由又有什么局限？到底怎么做才能让我们的世界变得更好一点呢？
This is how life at NYU Shanghai started, challenging but also unalloyed. Some of us tried DURF research projects in the summer to deepen our understanding within the major, while others tried various art courses beyond their major scope in regular semesters. Some of us fearlessly stood out as community volunteers during the pandemic in Shanghai, while others studied away in their favorite cities despite all the difficulties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. All of these unique and precious experiences are possible because the inclusive and diverse atmosphere of NYU Shanghai has wholeheartedly supported us to follow our hearts and make decisions we won’t regret. Four years in NYU Shanghai not only injects the spirit to challenge authority, but also guides us to find the anchor with which to stand still in this complex world. Thanks to it, all of us have become better-educated people with global perspectives.
在上纽大的生活就是这样开始的，既充满挑战，又纯粹美好。有人尝试过暑期科研项目，进一步拓展专业所学；也有人挑战过舒适区以外自己从未涉猎过的艺术课程；有人在上海疫情反复的关键阶段挺身而出，成为了社区志愿者；也有人勇敢地排除疫情的万难，去探索世界的其他角落。凡此种种，一点一滴，上纽大的包容和多元鼓励我们每一个人遵从本心、做独立自我，同时也给了我们在错综的社会里立住自己的锚定，以及挑战权威的锐气，让我们一步一步蜕变成了更优秀的、具有全球视野的受教育者。
The serious discussions, heartfelt catch-ups, and the passion to pursue truth and kindness in which we have been immersed over the past four years jointly solidifies us, and we are a truly globalized community with members from different parts of the world. As a community, we share the same understanding of the term “world:” it indicates both the space and the time; it indicates both macro ideas such as countries, nations, and societies, and micro ideas of massive individuals; it is not only the physical world that we humans have created, but also the continuous spirits and civilization that we have established and celebrated.
四年来，我们的交流碰撞、我们的推心置腹、我们所感受到并亲身参与的人类对真善美百折不挠追求的热忱，让来自世界各地、说着不同语言的我们不再只是流于“全球化”的形式和标签，而是真正从世界四散的角落一步一步走到一起，凝聚在我们对“世界”这个词的共识上：它是空间，也是时间；它是国家、民族、社会，还是每一个活生生的个体；它是人类一点一点打磨出的物理世界，更是人类接续不断的文明和精神。
The entire humanity shares one destiny. How we mentally unite together despite the distances among regions, races, cultures, languages, and space should be the epitome of the global community as well. Being a true global citizen, I ultimately realize, is not only about how an individual can change the entire world, but more about inviting and facilitating as many people as possible to build a better world together and shine the human spirit.
环球同此凉热。我们跨越地域、种族、文化、语言，跨越时空的千山万水凝聚在一起的模样，也应当是全世界的缩影。真正的世界公民，不在于个体对世界的改造，而在于感召更多的人一起关注世界、改善世界，让人类精神无论一切隔阂，熠熠生辉。
Sharing such passion, we have all started our own individualized pursuits with bravery. We are now diving into detailed tracks of majors and also navigating the concrete goal that we would like to commit to for our entire lives. Perhaps, we will head for very different futures; perhaps, we will enter very different industries; and perhaps, we will progress with very different paces. However, we are forever the members of this NYU Shanghai community that truly believe in and practice the principle of “Be Yourself,” and we will always receive support from this NYU Shanghai family. Please remember, the majesty of the world has never and will never be the blocks separating us. It is our shared ambition and our everlasting major.
怀揣着同样的热忱，我们逐渐四散开去，踏上自己的追寻之路，不惧困难，敢于创新，深耕于一个个细致的分支方向，找寻自己能够终身热爱并为之奋斗的道路和伙伴。或许我们会走向完全不同的未来，走进完全不同的行业，踏着不尽相同的步伐，但无论走到何时何方，我们永远是这个真心提倡“Be Yourself”（做自己）的社群的一员。世界的宏大从来不是我们之间的阻隔，而是我们共同的壮志，是我们永远的课堂。
Make the world your major. “Global citizen” is not only the decoration on our hoodies, but also our identity for the rest of our lives, no matter where we are.
Make the World Your Major. （让世界成为你的课堂。）“世界公民”四个字不仅印在了我们的衣服上，更将烙刻在我们往后的生命里。
Standing here, I cannot help but recall my first day at NYU Shanghai. I was 18, filled with the ambition to make positive changes to the world. Together with over 400 students sharing the same goal, I entered NYU Shanghai to begin a splendid adventure. Fortunately, everything has paid off, and we have all rapidly grown as individuals. Simultaneously, NYU Shanghai has also grown into maturity as a community, and its 10-year anniversary is looming. I believe everyone in the Class of 2022 is more than honored to have been hand in hand with NYU Shanghai during this transitional period, and I would like to represent all of the students, families, and friends of our cohort to congratulate our beloved NYU Shanghai:
现在站在这里，我脑海里浮现出的是十八岁那年的夏天，我怀揣着能为社会、为世界带来积极改变的理想，与志同道合的400多位同学一起踏入上纽大的校门，近乎决绝地投身于一场自我革新的勇敢冒险。所幸功不唐捐。过去四年，我们作为个体飞速成长，上纽大作为一个集体也日臻成熟，即将迎来它的十岁生日，走向新的校区和新的纪元。我们2022届的所有人很荣幸和上纽大共同成长相伴，走过了这承上启下的关键数载。在此，我谨代表2022届所有学生、家长和伙伴，向我们永远热爱的上海纽约大学道一声真诚的感谢，也提前祝一声：
Thank you and happy 10-year anniversary!
十周年生日快乐！
To everyone in the Class of 2022, congratulations! Though we cannot see each other in person, the glory doesn’t fade! Warm air hugs and congratulations! We have made it!
2022届的每一位同学，让我们祝贺彼此顺利完成了学业，取得了令自己满意的成绩！虽然因为疫情我们不能线下见面，但荣光依旧，友情常驻！再次祝贺大家！
Let’s cherish our memories and be ready to reunite soon! I wish NYU Shanghai, all of us, and the entire world a better future!
山高水长，会有归期。祝学校更好，祝我们更好，祝世界更好!
Thank you!
谢谢！
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
施怡聆——在上纽发现我所热爱的
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼