衞周安教务长2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞全文

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
教务长 |衞周安
Chancellor Tong! President Hamilton! Vice-Chancellor Lehman! Friends! Colleagues! Parents! Ladies and Gentlemen, Near and Far! Salute with me our great students of the Class of 2022! Dear students, on behalf of the whole NYU Shanghai community, from the bottom of my heart I offer you congratulations upon your graduation. We are very proud of you, and we are especially proud of your inspirational perseverance through to this moment despite often highly trying circumstances.
童校长、Hamilton校长、雷蒙常务副校长、朋友们、同事们、毕业生家长们、此刻身处在五湖四海的女士们先生们，请和我一起向2022届的毕业生们致敬！各位毕业生，我谨代表上海纽约大学全体成员，对你们的毕业致以最衷心的祝贺！我们衷心为你们感到骄傲，尤其是你们在这段异常艰难的时间里展现出的坚韧不拔的毅力。
This has been quite an unpredictable time. Some of you are not where you expected to be at this moment, and some of you may have taken classes you did not expect to take, or have taken them in modes you did not anticipate. Some of you may have ended up separated from the friends you expected to graduate with, and yet your friendships may have deepened at long distance and you likely have made new ones. For out of unpredictability can come adaptability; out of crisis can come opportunity; out of disaster can come new experiences and self-fulfillment. We cannot say that the unexpected is necessarily all bad, or that predictability is necessarily all good, and in fact we cannot really say that anything can be categorically declared to be all good or all bad, for everything contains the seed of its opposite.
我们现在所处的环境变幻莫测。有些同学可能未曾想到自己会置身于目前所在的地方，有些同学可能学着计划之外的课程或者以计划之外的形式上课。曾相约一起毕业的朋友们或在此刻天各一方，不过距离可能让你们的友谊更加醇厚，你也可能收获新的友谊。因为，变化中可学会适应，危机中蕴藏机遇，灾难中可收获新的经验、实现自我价值。我们无法断言“不可预见性”一无是处，或者“可预见性”皆为良善。事实上，我们无法称任何事情都能以绝对的好坏标准划分，因为任何事物都是作为矛盾统一体而存在的。
Just last month it happened that on the self-same day two different people used in conversation with me the same Chinese saying, with which at that moment I was still unfamiliar. Many of you will know it; it is “塞翁失马，焉知非福” which means something like: The old man lost his horse, but it all turned out for the best. Something that appears to be a complete disaster may have a “silver lining.”
就在上个月，有两个人在同一天告诉了我同一句中文，当时我还不太熟悉。你们中应该有很多人听说过这句话——“塞翁失马，焉知非福”，大意是一位老翁丢失了自己的马，但结果却变成了好事。虽然有时事情看上去很糟糕，但往往蕴藏着“一线生机”。
This saying comes from the Huainanzi, a 2nd century BCE text which, ancient as it is, was not the first occurrence of this kind of sentiment. That appears to have been the Dao De Jing, the classic text of Daoism dating from several hundred years earlier, where the following declaration conveys a similar idea: “禍兮福之所倚，福兮禍之所伏。孰知其极?” Misery is what happiness rests upon. Happiness is what misery lurks beneath. Who knows where it ends?
这句话源自成书于公元前2世纪的《淮南子》。《淮南子》虽然很古老，但并不是首个表达类似思想的著作。再往前追溯几百年，道教经典著作《道德经》里有句相似的名言：“祸兮福之所倚，福兮祸之所伏。孰知其极？”意思是：福因祸而生，祸潜伏于福之下。谁知道它在哪里结束？
These words came to mind again just after that in a completely different context. For me, one of the better outcomes of being locked down for several weeks was rereading some of my favorite novels, and the one I want to refer to now is Elena Ferrante’s My Brilliant Friend, the first in a series of four wonderful novels published only a few years ago, about a lifelong friendship which lasts from when the protagonists are schoolgirls all through their growing into young women and becoming mature adults. It contains many profound insights about the nature of the love that is friendship, about how one doesn’t always understand why the friends that one loves say or do what they do, and whether in the end that matters; and about how one can sometimes misinterpret words and deeds and can suffer agonies of jealousy; about how at moments of personal unhappiness and self-doubt one can almost hate a dear friend because of their seeming success and happiness, and ultimately about how one might decide that despite a difficult spell, a particular friendship is too precious to throw away. Misery and joy co-exist; suffering and celebration succeed one another; one cannot foresee how things will turn out. So what this tells us in particular, drawing on Laozi and the Huai Nanzi, is that if things sometimes do not go exactly your way, do not rush headlong to utter pessimism about the long term. Instead, accept unpredictability and the power of happenstance, embrace a conditional optimism that imagines a path forward and figures out how to make it happen. You know you can do it.
在那之后，相似的话语又在一个完全不同的背景下再次浮现在我脑海中。对我来说，被封控几周的一个不错的“福”，是得以重读我最喜欢的一些小说。我想提的这本书是埃琳娜·费兰特几年前创作的“那不勒斯四部曲”中的第一部——《我的天才女友》。这部小说讲述了主人公的一段延续终生的友谊，跨越从学生时代、青年时代直至成年，包含了许多深刻的话题与见解：关于友谊之爱的本质；关于人们并不总是理解自己挚友的言行，以及最终理解与否是否真的重要；关于人们有时会误解彼此的言行，并遭受嫉妒之苦；关于在情绪低迷和自我怀疑之时，人们会因为挚友看似成功和幸福而几乎到憎恨挚友的地步；以及关于尽管会有困难与挑战，人们最终还是会因某段友谊太过珍贵而决定维系。痛苦与欢乐并存，苦难和欢庆相随，世事难料。因此，结合《道德经》和《淮南子》的启示，如果事情一时不完全按照你设想的方式进行，不要急于对其的长期发展持完全悲观的态度。相反，接受不可预知性和偶然性的力量，拥抱一定前提之下的乐观精神，构想前行之路，并探求如何付诸实践。你相信自己能做到的。
Class of 2022, you already have done it!
2022届毕业生们，你们已经做到了！
So, dear students, as you advance to the next stage of your lives, not only must you savor your brightest moments, knowing that darkness and sorrow may lurk underneath them, but never forget that your darkest moments may soon give way to light and joy. In short, if you lose your horse, don’t worry, for a greater and more wonderful steed may be waiting round the very next corner to carry you onwards through life. Who knows where it will lead you?
因此，亲爱的同学们，当步入人生下一个阶段时，希望你们在享受光明与欢乐的时刻时，不要忘记，那些黑暗和悲伤都可能都潜藏其下。但更别忘记，那些至暗时刻，可能很快就会被光明与欢乐取代。简而言之，如果你失去了你的“马”，请不要担心，因为在下一个转角处，可能有一匹更健硕的骏马在等着你，伴你前行。谁知道它会把你带往何方呢？
Congratulations, Class of 2022!
再次祝贺你们，2022届毕业生！
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奥运冠军杨扬上纽大毕业典礼致辞 ：态度是奠定未来发展的基石
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼