雷蒙校长2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞全文

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
常务副校长 | 雷蒙
Members of the Class of 2022.
2022届的同学们：
Your four years with us have not gone as you expected. The pandemic limited our ability to move around. It changed what we think about, what we do, and how we do it.
你们四年的大学生活和你们期望的恐怕有些差距。疫情不仅使得大家无法自由行动，更深刻影响着我们所思所为的方方面面。
For example, in pre-COVID commencements, I would deliver a long and slow set of remarks at the ceremony. But in this format, I will be more brief and focus on just one way that your NYU Shanghai education can help you to triumph after you graduate.
如果是正常情况下的毕业典礼，我的致辞篇幅可能会更长，但今日不同往昔，此刻我将精简演讲的内容，只谈谈在上纽大的所学如何帮助你们在毕业以后继续创造卓越成就。
Modern technology is amazing, but it has made it harder for us to live in peace with others. James Williams, Shoshana Zuboff, and Kai-Fu Lee have all written great books about how today’s information ecosystem is messed up. Other people make money by seizing our attention. The most effective way for them to do that is by making us upset or angry. So, instead of inhabiting an ecosystem that provides continuous respectful exploration of a complex reality, we get trolling, name-calling, unrepresentative cases, and straight-up misinformation. Sometimes the voice is agitated, sometimes it is calm, but either way it keeps telling us that people who are different are dangerous, and people who disagree are evil.
科技的进步有目共睹，但同时也让人与人之间的和睦相处变得更困难。在詹姆斯·威廉姆斯、肖莎娜·祖博夫，以及李开复等的著作里都提到了信息生态中的乱象。流量成了一些人的财富密码，而吸引流量最有效的方式就是煽动负面、激愤的情绪。因此我们看到，网络上理性辩证的声音越来越少，取而代之的是越来越多的网络喷子、网络暴力、断章取义，或纯粹的谣言。他们有的义愤填膺，有的道貌岸然，但殊途同归，都试图向我们灌输一种观念，即“与众不同的人是危险的，持不同观点的人是邪恶的”。
Well, after four years of study at NYU Shanghai, you all have the tools to defeat that nonsense. You have built real friendships with people who are very different from you, and you know they are not dangerous. You have gotten to like people who disagree with you about important issues and you know they are not evil. You have felt the joy of discovering that your old understanding of the world was too simple, and that a more complex combination of perspectives is both more accurate and more beautiful.
而经过在上纽大四年的学习生活，相信你们能够抵御这种无稽之谈。在上纽大，你们和与自己不同的人成了朋友，知道不同不代表危险。你们学会了欣赏在重要议题上与你意见相左的人，知道不同不代表邪恶。你们为发现自己过去想法中的简单狭隘而欣喜，你们更深刻地理解了真实世界的复杂与多元，而这种复杂与多元也正是它的魅力所在。
So when you hear or read something that makes you feel agitated, remember your time here and ask the key question:
所以，当你听到或看到挑动你情绪的信息时，请想想你在这里度过的时光，并记得问自己一个关键的问题：
“How might that be not completely right? Might there be another way to look at things?”
“这真的是事实的全部吗？从不同的角度看会不会不一样呢？”
In fact, don’t just ask that question when you feel agitated. Ask it when you feel calm. Ask it when you hear something that sounds completely sensible.
甚至不只在你情绪激动的时候，在你平和镇定的时候，在你觉得某个观点很有道理的时候，也要思考一下这个问题：
“How might that be not completely right? Might there be another way to look at things? Might my former classmate see things differently?”
“这真的是事实的全部吗？从不同的角度看会不会不一样呢？我以前的同学会不会有不同的看法？”
You see, that question isn’t just a good way to stop doom scrolling and take your attention back from the algorithms. That question is also the key to making disruptive innovations in whatever kind of work you are doing.
这个问题能让你跳脱出算法推送的同质化内容设计的陷阱。这个问题也是让你打破思维定式，实现突破性创新的关键，这与你决定从事的行业无关。
Creative breakthroughs happen after you have mastered the conventional wisdom, after you have learned what the experts believe is true. They happen when you push yourself to ask whether what “everybody knows” might not be the entire story.
创新的产生是在你掌握前人智慧和权威专家知识的基础上，继续追问是否“大家都认可”的东西就是事实的全部。
Of course that search for another perspective, that search for a more complicated understanding, will often not lead you anywhere exciting. You will often end up deciding that you don’t have anything really new to say.
当然，对新观点和复杂认知的追寻不一定总有结果，很多时候你都会无功而返。
But I promise you, if you commit yourself to the effort, to genuinely looking for ways to combine the traditional view with a different perspective, you will be surprised at how often you do end up feeling you have a deeper, more complete picture of the matter than you did before. And even if you end up with the exactly the same analysis that you started with, you will feel better for having made that analysis authentically yours.
但我可以保证，只要你坚持这样做，坚持寻找更全面的角度和观点，你一定能不断精进理解感知事物的深度和广度。哪怕你得到的是与之前相同的结论，你对事物本质和内在的了解程度，也早已不可同日而语。
Members of the NYU Shanghai Class of 2022, as you embark on lives of worth and purpose, lives of service to a world that desperately needs you, let me conclude by sharing a few hopes that we, your teachers, hold for you:
上海纽约大学2022届的同学们，你们即将踏上追求富有意义和价值的人生新旅程，为这个世界贡献你们的热忱与才华。在此，我代表你们的老师，向你们表达我们的期许：
May you enjoy the special pleasures of craft — the private satisfaction of doing a task as well as it can be done.
愿你们享受创作的乐趣，体会亲手完成一件作品的成就感；
May you enjoy the special pleasures of profession — the added satisfaction of knowing that your efforts promote a larger public good.
愿你们享受事业的乐趣，欣赏自己的努力给社会带来的更大价值；
May you be blessed with good luck, and also with the wisdom to appreciate when you have been lucky rather than skillful.
愿你们一路幸运，并在好运来临时心怀谦卑和感恩；
May you find ways to help others under circumstances where they cannot possibly know that you have done so.
愿你们润物无声地帮助他人；
May you be patient, and gentle, and tolerant, without becoming smug, self-satisfied, or arrogant.
愿你们时刻保持温良恭俭、关怀包容，不要自以为是、目中无人；
May you always be able to confess ignorance, doubt, vulnerability, and uncertainty.
愿你们能坦然面对自己的无知、疑惑、软弱和踌躇；
May you build long and loving relationships with people whom you respect.
愿你们身边有知音长伴；
May you know enough bad weather that you never take sunshine for granted, and enough good weather that your faith in the coming of spring is never shaken.
愿你们经历足够多的风雨而对明媚的阳光心存感恩，愿你们体验足够温暖的阳光而对柳暗花明永怀盼望；
May you be able to travel frequently beyond the places that are comfortable and familiar, so that your appreciation for the miraculous diversity of life grows ever stronger.
愿你们常常跳脱熟悉、舒适的圈子，去到陌生的地方旅行，对生命的奇妙多样、人生的丰富多彩愈发敬畏；
And may your steps lead you often back to Shanghai. Back to Pudong. For you will always be members of the NYU Shanghai family. And even after we move our campus to Qiantan this winter, we will always be happy to welcome you home.
最后，希望你们常回上海、回浦东看看。即便这个冬天学校就要搬到前滩校区，上纽大也永远是你们的家。
Congratulations.
祝贺大家！
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奥运冠军杨扬上纽大毕业典礼致辞 ：态度是奠定未来发展的基石
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼