国际学生代表Bongani Musikavanhu2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞全文

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
国际学生代表 |Bongani Ntsakani Musikavanhu
尊敬的Hamilton校长、童校长、雷蒙校长和衞周安教务长女士：
President Hamilton, Chancellor Tong, Vice Chancellor Lehman, and Provost Joanna Waley-Cohen,
那是2019年，我和几个朋友早上5点左右起床，去安徽黄山看日出。这很累，但毫无疑问地说，那是我见过的最美丽的（风景）之一，非常值得。
It was 2019. Some friends and I had woken up at about 5 AM to catch the sunrise over the Yellow Mountain in Anhui. It was exhausting, but I can say without a doubt that it was one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen. Very worth it.
当我在看风景时，我听到两个声音在我身边交谈：“哇，他怎么这么黑？”
As I am taking in the view, I hear a voice to my side whisper, “Wow, how can he be so Black?”
有那么一瞬间，我想知道为什么他们会把日出描述为黑色，直到我听到另一个声音说，“我怎么知道？你去问他吧。”
For a second, I wondered why they would describe the sunrise as black, until I heard another voice say, “How would I know? You should go ask him.”
“好吧好吧，我去问他……你好，你怎么这么黑？”
“Okay, okay fine…Uhh hello, why are you so Black?”
“哎呀，请原谅我的朋友，他想问的是，是不是所有和你来自同一个地方的人都这么黑。”
“Ayaa, please excuse my friend. What he means to ask is, ‘Is everyone from where you are from THAT Black?”
我想了想，然后回答道：“不是的，他们不全都是这么黑。我小时候吃了太多巧克力呀。”
I thought for a second, then responded, “No, they are not all this Black. When I was little, I ate too much chocolate.”
“啊啊啊啊，那当然啦，你还记得王先生的儿子和他对费列罗的痴迷吧。真正的悲剧啊。”
“Ahhhhhh of course, yes,yes you remember Mr. Wang’s son and his Fererro Rocher addiction. A true tragedy.”
我曾经很想知道，这是否是最负责任的答案，但最终，互动不仅仅意味着一个问题，更重要的（是），这是一个自我介绍的机会。
I’ve wondered if that was the most responsible answer, but in the end, the interaction meant more than just a question. It was a chance at introductions.
这所大学有很多我站在这里想要感谢的事情。当最近有人问我那些事情是什么时，我的想法让我感到惊讶，因为首先浮现在我脑海中的是我的失败，是那些测试和试验中，需要我真正拷问自己的一些棘手的问题。
There are so many things I can stand here and thank this university for. And when someone recently asked me what those things were, my thoughts surprised me. Immediately my failures came to mind, moments of testing and trials that required me to ask myself hard questions.
确实，现在的我，已经不再是2018年初次走进金桥的我。因此，我首先想要感谢这所大学，对平等、公正和博学无差别的追求。因为正是那些几乎让我们崩溃的事情，让我们看到了自己的力量。然而，这不是全部。
Indeed I am not the same person who walked into Jinqiao in 2018. Therefore, I initially would have thanked this school for its equal and unbiased presentation of adversity, its indifferent pursuit of the erudite and its candid assessment of the individual. Because it's the things that nearly broke me that showed me my own strength. However, that is not the whole picture.
在我在这个星球上度过的岁月里 ，我注意到对于极端差异通常有两种反应：恐惧与退缩，或者勇气和投入。此类反应的后续结果与它们的不同一样强大。恐惧几乎总是导致羞耻感和距离感，而勇气大体上会带来联系和理解。在很多情况下，我更愿意将勇气带来的东西形容为温暖和爱。我想向大家介绍一个我从小就坚信的理念。虽然许多人会认为“爱”只是一个需要寻求或接受的强烈情感，但在我看来，在大多数情况下，爱是一个决定，一个往往需要很大勇气的决定。
Throughout my time on this planet, I have noticed there are typically two reactions to extreme differences: fear and withdrawal, or courage and engagement. The subsequent outcomes of such reactions are as powerful as they are different. Fear almost always leads to feelings of shame and distance, whilst courage by and large leads to connection and understanding. In a lot of instances, courage has led to what I would describe as warmth and love. I would like to present to you an idea I have been raised to believe. While many would assume ‘Love’ is just a powerful emotion to be sought after or received, I understand it to be in most cases a decision. A decision that often requires a lot of courage.
2020年和2021年向我们提出了很多问题，把我们中的很多人带到了崩溃的边缘。在这里，我不仅仅是在谈论COVID-19（新冠疫情）。我们看到了自Jim Crow（吉姆·克劳法）和种族隔离以来最糟糕的歧视和仇恨，而这些在我看来都是“最近的历史”。人们对“不同”的厌恶和恐惧的倾向，比病毒困扰人类的时间要长得多，但我们仍然犹豫是否（要）采取唯一的补救措施。
2020 and 2021 asked us a lot of questions. They brought a lot of us to a breaking point, and I am not just talking about Covid-19. We saw some of the worst cases of discrimination and hate since Jim Crow and Apartheid which I would very much consider ‘recent history.’ The propensity to hate and fear difference has plagued humanity much longer than this virus, and yet we still hesitate to recognize the only remedy.
我意识到我真正想要感谢上海纽约大学的是什么。这所大学已经用独特的方式把联结世界作为他们的首要任务，为每个人提供满足好奇心和探索求知的机会。当然不仅在学校和课堂，这样的交流在课外也一直进行着。来到这里，这所学校让我以一种深刻且意义深远的方式，与不同的语言和文化建立了联系，也让我接触过的一些人有类似的机会了解我和我的背景。
I realized what I truly wanted to thank the university for. This institution has made it their priority to unite the world in a rather unique way. Giving opportunities for all kinds of people to be curious and learn. This was carried off campus as well. By getting me here, this school has allowed me to connect with this language and culture in a deep and profound way. It has likewise given the few people I have engaged with a similar chance at getting to know me and my background.
有了这些，我想把这种教育带给我的考验比作我们每天面对的考验。你可以选择毅力，当然也可以选择放弃。可以选择勇气，同时恐惧也是一种选择。可以选择爱，而同样也可以心怀仇恨。我想鼓励2022届学生，以及未来即将进入上海纽约大学求学的学生，让恐惧引导你走向勇敢的时刻——去和素未谋面的同学用对方的语言交谈吧，去和公园里的老人一起玩吧。是的，你可能会被拒绝，但你也有机会找到温暖。你有可能成为一个仅仅通过做自己就能影响或改变整个世界的人。
So, I want to liken the testing this education has put me through to the testing we face on a daily basis. Choosing perseverance means you could also just give up. Choosing courage requires fear as an option. Choosing love means hate was just as accessible. I would like to encourage the Class of 2022, and future NYU Shanghai students to let fear guide you to moments of courage. Go talk to that student you have never met before in their language. Go hang out with the old people in the park. Yes, you may get turned down, but there is a chance that you may find warmth. There is a chance that you could be the one person that informs or changes an entire world view simply by being yourself.
你可以成为这个被仇恨和恐惧裹挟的世界的解药。
You could be the antidote to a world plagued with hate and fear.
谢谢大家！祝2022届毕业生好运！
Thank you, and good luck to the Class of 2022.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
Bongani Ntsakani Musikavanhu——上纽是我人生旅途的小幸运
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼