奥运冠军杨扬上纽大毕业典礼致辞 ：态度是奠定未来发展的基石

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
杨扬
中国冬奥首金获得者
世界反兴奋剂机构（WADA）副主席
2022年北京冬奥组委运动员委员会主席
Thank you so much for inviting me to be a part of your Commencement. It is such an honor to be here to celebrate this important milestone moment with all of you. I am also deeply honored to receive the Chancellor’s Medal of Honor. Thank you very much Chancellor Tong and NYU Shanghai！
我非常荣幸出席今天的毕业典礼，和大家一起庆祝这个具有纪念意义的日子。同时，我也非常荣幸能获得“校长荣誉奖章”，非常感谢童校长、感谢上海纽约大学。
My last experience related to New York was in 2015 during the bidding process for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympicand Paralympic Games. I was there to promote the bid, and convince people why China could successfully host the Winter Olympic Games.
我上一次和纽约结缘还是在2015年，那时候我正在投入申办2022年北京冬奥会和冬残奥会的工作。我的工作是说服大家北京具备成功承办冬奥会的能力。
During the trip, I met with Angela Ruggiero, the two-time Olympic gold medalist from the US women’s ice hockey team. We had a beautiful brunch in downtown Manhattan, and then she proposed to take a walk in Central Park. It was a really cold day, but the air was so crisp, and my heart was filled with hope and anticipation.
期间，我见了Angela Ruggiero（安吉拉·鲁杰罗），她为美国夺得过两块奥运女子冰球金牌。我们在曼哈顿共进午餐，然后她提议我们去中央公园走一走。那天很冷，但空气清冽，我心中也充满希望和期盼。
During the walk, we talked about how both of us started skating, about our first Olympic experiences, and how our family and friends were supporting us. We also shared some views of what was happening in the world at that time and what kind of future we were facing.
我们畅聊了我们是如何开始学习滑冰的、我们第一次参加奥运的经历，以及家人朋友对我们的支持等等。同时我们也分享了对于当时世界所发生的一些事情的看法，以及我们将要面对怎样的未来。
We were both surprised by the fact that even though we grew up in different countries, we were so much alike in our passion for sports and our belief in sports. In the end, she wished China won the bid.
我们非常惊喜地发现，虽然我们成长于不同的国家，但我们对体育的热情和信念是那么相似。谈话最后，她祝愿北京申办成功。
Fast forward to 2022, just a few months ago. Athletes from all over the world, who’ve overcome the tremendous challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic and are living through great uncertainty, gathered in Beijing.
快进到2022年，就在几个月之前，来自全世界的运动员在克服了疫情带来的重重困难和不确定性后，汇聚北京。
When they arrived, I was so excited and moved. And of course, their performances became the focal point of the world. They competed to fulfill their life-long dreams, and they competed for their countries’ honor by respecting the same rules and respecting each other. On top of that, they also supported each other and celebrated together to show the world that even if we look different and have different beliefs, we can all be together, show our talent, and share the glory of human achievements and experience. This is the power of sports that I believe, which has always inspired me to move forward.
他们的到来让我又兴奋又感动。他们也理所当然地成为了全世界瞩目的焦点。他们为自己毕生的理想而奋斗；他们在遵守同样的规则和相互尊重下为祖国荣誉而战；与此同时，他们相互鼓励、共同庆祝，向世界展示了即便我们不同肤色、不同信仰，但还是可以在一起，向世界展示我们的才华，分享人类的成就和经验。这是我所相信的体育的力量，并一直激励我前行。
Chancellor Tong earlier mentioned that he wished you could be like me and “learn from enduring unusual physical and mental challenges in athletic training.” I can deeply feel Chancellor Tong's love for you.
刚才童校长提到，如果有选择的话，希望大家像我一样坚持体育锻炼来历练身心。我能体会到这句话里童校长对你们的爱。
However, I would like to expand on his words and share with you that while we may not have a choice in when the pandemic ends or when life can get back to normal - just like we cannot choose the family we were born into - we always have a choice in the attitude that we have towards challenges and difficulties. Such an attitude will be the foundation from which you build your future. And the hardships you face today may one day prove to be the best training program for a stronger you.
我想更进一步，我们可能无法选择疫情什么时候结束，什么时候我们能完全回归正常生活，正如我们没法选择出生在哪个家庭。但我们始终可以选择面对挑战和困难时的态度！态度是奠定未来发展的基石。今天的磨难有朝一日将成就更强的你。
I would like to share a personal story with you. In 1998, I participated in my first Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan. As the new World Champion in 1997, of course my goal was to win medals or even gold medals in the Olympics, however, reality was far from what I hoped. I was disqualified in both events that I entered, and in one of the events - the Women’s 1000 Meters - I broke the world record in the semifinal and crossed the finish line first in the final. However, I was disqualified two minutes later.
给大家分享一个我的个人经历。1998年，我参加了人生中第一次冬奥会，长野冬奥会。作为1997年的新科世锦赛冠军，我的目标自然是冬奥会奖牌，甚至金牌。但现实与理想相去甚远。我参加的两个项目都没有晋级。其中女子1000米短道速滑，我在半决赛就打破了世界纪录，决赛时，我第一个冲过终点，却没想到两分钟后，我被判犯规淘汰。
The taste of victory was so close yet so far away. Can you imagine how that must have felt? Faced with such results, it seemed I had no choice. I suppose I could have blamed the referee as the judgment was quite controversial after seeing the replay, then… life moved on.
胜利本已触手可及，你们能想象那种感受吗？面对这样的结果，看似别无选择。我可以抱怨裁判不公，因为看过回放之后，那个判决确有值得商榷的地方，然后……生活继续。
But to be honest, I knew it was not going to help with solving the issue, and I was worried that it might happen again in future races. Then, I decided to face the defeat head on, not blame the referees or other skaters, but focus on myself to find out where I can do better and use it as a motivating factor to move forward.
但我也知道，抱怨不解决问题，也不能避免未来发生同样的事情。所以我选择昂首面对失败，不去抱怨裁判或其他选手，而是专注于提高自己，把失败当成是前进的动力。
Because of the positive choice that I made for myself in 1998, I was able to win each of the next five World Championships following the Nagano Olympics. Here I can prove that hardships will be the best nutrition to help you be strong. But it will do only with your positive thinking.
正是这种积极态度让我奋发图强，并在长野冬奥会之后的五年里连续获得世锦赛冠军。所以我就是一个活生生的例子，证明磨难是成就更强的自己的最好养料。但前提是，必须用积极的态度去对待磨难。
The pandemic of the past two and half years has been a big challenge for all of us, me included. Especially during the lockdown over the last couple of months, I have experienced confusion, anger, dissatisfaction, and fear of the uncertain future.
持续了两年半的疫情对我们所有人都是一个巨大的考验，包括我在内。特别是在过去几个月的封控期间，我疑惑过、愤怒过、不满过，也因未来的不确定性害怕过。
You see, for an athlete, having a goal, putting in your best effort is not the problem; the problem is when you don’t have a sense of purpose and direction. After my loss in Nagano, I was faced with a decision whether or not to train for another four years for the next Olympics.
对于一名运动员来说，为了一个目标而努力不是问题。问题是怕没有了目标和方向。回想我面临长野的失败后，最大的问题就是要不要为了下一届奥运会再奋斗四年。
But the decision was far from clear cut. I would be four years older, I had already carried some injuries, even if I was in good shape, there was no guarantee that I could win, like in Nagano. I also knew that if I couldn’t give myself a clear sense of purpose, even if I continued to train and compete, I might suffer from a lack of motivation and self-confidence, especially if I was faced with challenge and defeat.
这不是一个简单的决定。我面对的是年龄再大四岁，以及身上积累的伤病。而且即便可以保持状态，也不保证不会再发生长野那样的情况。我也明白如果我不能给自己设立一个明确的目标，那即使继续训练和比赛，我会患得患失，尤其是面临挑战和失败的时候。
After struggling for about a month, I realized that I could accept failure, but I couldn’t accept a not 100% dedicated “me.” Once I came to this realization, the rest became clear and simple. During the following four years, I didn’t waver, and I was able to enjoy the learning and growth that came with every challenge and failure.
经过了大概一个月的心理斗争，我终于想清楚了，我可以接受失败，但不能接受没有百分百努力的自己。解决了这个心结，其他事情就简单了。接下来的四年，我不再彷徨，并享受从挑战和失败中学习与成长的过程。
This realization gave me the self-confidence and determination that eventually helped me to achieve my first gold medal which was also the first gold medal for China in the Winter Olympics.
这个认知给了我自信和决心，最终让我站上冬奥会最高领奖台，赢得中国冬奥会历史上第一枚金牌。
The wisdom gained from these previous experiences has helped me get through the last couple months of lockdown with a positive attitude. I am still trying my best, hoping everything goes well, but I am also ready to meet the challenges.
而在过去几个月的封控当中，我继续保持这种积极的态度，为好的结果努力，同时时刻准备迎接困难和挑战。
Aim high, stay grounded, keep learning: those are the goals I set for myself after I retired and started my new life. I founded the Champion Foundation, started my skating club, devoted myself to developing sports for good, and dedicated my time to working in International Sports Organizations.
志向高远，脚踏实地，学无止境——这些是我在退役的时候告诉自己面对新生活的态度。我成立了冠军基金，开设了滑冰俱乐部，投身于发展体育事业并积极参与国际体育组织的工作。
I have learned that aiming high will help you to “ignore” short term setbacks, and give you a sense of purpose and make you strong. And if that long term mission helps to make a positive contribution to society, you will receive your fair share. So, I encourage you to make that alignment. And you will find such alignment will bring you happiness. Staying grounded and continuing to learn is the way to help you achieve your goals and dream over your lifetime.
通过这段经历，我深切体会到，志向高远能让你不被眼前的问题所局限和纠缠，保持目标并最终变得坚定而强大。如果你的目标能对社会有所贡献，你也一定能收获属于你的回报。所以我希望大家都能找到把个人发展和社会贡献相契合作为目标，你们会发现这种契合能带给你幸福。脚踏实地并持续学习则是你实现自己毕生追求的途径。
Last but not least, believe in the power of love. Because I believe the love of your family, your school, your teachers, and your friends have helped to shape who you are and have helped you to arrive at today’s special occasion. You have already achieved so much. You will help to shape the future of this world. May the force be with you! Go NYU Shanghai. Jia you!
最后，请相信爱的力量。是来自家庭、学校、老师、朋友的爱塑造了今天的你们，让你们达成了今天的成绩。请你们用你们的能力去塑造世界的未来。愿力量与你们同在！上纽大加油，大家加油！
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼
上纽大合唱团“云唱”校歌 庆祝2022届本科生毕业