纽约大学校长Andrew Hamilton2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞全文

点击观看视频
上海纽约大学2022届本科生毕业典礼致辞
纽约大学校长 | Andrew Hamilton
Hello! I’m Andrew Hamilton, president of NYU, and it brings me great pride to say a few words to the magnificent NYU Shanghai Class of 2022.
大家好！我是纽约大学校长Andrew Hamilton，很荣幸可以受邀为上海纽约大学2022届的毕业生们送上祝福。
Graduates, from the moment you entered into the world of scholarship, learning, and discovery that is NYU Shanghai, you have distinguished yourselves, as students, researchers, community leaders, artists, and entrepreneurs.
即将挥别大学校园的你们，从入学开始，便置身于上海纽约大学这所充满学术探索氛围的学府，在学业、科研、社区服务、艺术和创业领域脱颖而出，不断发光发热。
Among you are the first cohort of PhD students, demonstrating the academic strength of this campus within the greater NYU community.
我们还迎来了上纽大培养出的第一批博士生，这无疑体现了上纽大在纽约大学全球教育体系内的学术实力。
The Class of 2022 has risen to the top, garnering recognition as Schwarzman Scholars, taking home awards in national competitions, and excelling as athletes. And you will continue to make your mark as you pursue graduate and employment opportunities at leading institutions around the world.
你们取得的卓越成就有目共睹。其中，有人当选“苏世民学者”，有人在国家级比赛中载誉而归，有人在体育赛场上顽强拼搏。相信未来你们无论是在世界各地的高等学府深造，还是在知名企业就业，都能继续创造佳绩。
Class of 2022, this is your day, and you have much to be proud of. You are graduating from a premier liberal arts college within a global research university.
上纽大2022届的同学们，今天是独属于你们的重要日子，有太多是值得你们为之骄傲和自豪的。你们将从一所世界顶尖的国际化研究型学府毕业，带着博雅智识、全球视野，走向世界。
I know the pandemic has upended your expectations of what your university years would entail, much less the final weeks. This has been a time of great difficulty that has tested your strength and resolve, and I commend you for maintaining your spirit, determination and sense of community.
我知道这场疫情使你们的大学生活不同于原本的美好期望，尤其是毕业前的最后几周。面对巨大的困难，你们的信念与实力经受着考验。我很欣慰地看到你们仍然保持着信心、决心，承担起集体责任。
I hope you can take with you the confidence that you achieved your goals and earned your degree during a time of significant upheaval. You deserve not only our recognition but our admiration for what you have accomplished.
我期待你们能带着这份信心，这份在艰难时期求索新知、遨游学海的信心，去开启流光溢彩的下一篇章。你们所取得的成就，值得我们所有人的认可与赞赏。
And I can assure you each one of you has made the NYU community better by being part of it. So here is my charge to you: wherever your path takes you, whichever community you decide to join, make it better. Find ways small or big to make it more welcoming, more just, more efficient, more engaged.
毋庸置疑，你们每个人的加入都为纽约大学这个大家庭增光添彩。在此，我也向你们提出一个要求：无论你们未来去往何方，决定加入哪个集体，都要尽自己所能使之变得更美好。无论你们所寻得的方式是什么，终极目的都在于让你们的所在之地变得更友善、更公正、更高效，且吸引更多人参与其中。
If you keep doing that, your impact as NYU alumni will be unstoppable.
如果持续为之奋斗，身为纽约大学校友的你们，将发挥势不可挡的影响力。
Class of 2022, you are the last class to graduate at NYU Shanghai's beloved Century Avenue campus. As we look forward to celebrating the 10-year anniversary and moving to the new Qiantan Campus, we hope you'll come back to see us often.
2022届的同学们，你们是从上纽大世纪大道校园毕业的最后一届学生。在我们迎接建校十周年和前滩新校区启用之际送别你们离开校园，也衷心希望你们日后能常回家看看。
On behalf of everyone at NYU, warmest congratulations and our very best wishes!
我谨代表纽约大学的每个人，为你们送上最诚挚的祝福和最美好的祝愿！
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奥运冠军杨扬上纽大毕业典礼致辞 ：态度是奠定未来发展的基石
上海纽约大学在线举行2022届本科生毕业典礼