纽约大学校长Andrew Hamilton上纽大2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞
纽约大学校长 | Andrew Hamilton
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
尊敬的童校长、雷蒙常务副校长、衞周安教务长、朋友们、同事们，以及上海纽约大学2023届的优秀毕业生们：
今天是辉煌之日，是庆祝本届毕业生斐然成就的喜悦日子，也是上纽大师生员工自疫情以来，首次在线下举行庆典的日子。我很荣幸与大家聚首同庆。
过去的一年对上海纽约大学而言，意义非凡！学校迎来了新的发展里程碑，搬入了前滩新校园，校园规模近乎原世纪大道校园两倍之大，为师生提供了学术研究、表演和运动的绝佳空间。
二十多名教师获得了中国及世界知名的学术荣誉和奖项。两门本科课程——Ilaf Elard教授的“区块链与货币经济学”和Wilson Tam（谭翊章）教授的“自然语言处理”入选“2022年度上海高等学校一流本科课程名单”。
经济学实践副教授、经济学本科培养负责人翁韡韡和学术英语项目教学副教授、学术英语项目联合负责人Steve Iams荣获上海纽约大学第二届卓越教学奖，其优秀的教学表现和在启发学生潜能上的杰出贡献获得了师生的广泛认可。
上纽大学子在学习和研究方面继续表现出色，荣获诸多国际重要奖项和知名奖学金，其中包括欧盟“伊拉斯谟世界计划”奖学金和富布赖特奖学金。
以上，不过是这非凡一年的片段高光。而这一切的核心都在于你们，在座的每一位毕业生。
每当我将目光投向这所大学，我看到的是一个胸怀世界，从彼此差异中不断学习的学生群体。你们让我们骄傲。在巨变年份里的学习，你们展现了前所未有的灵活、韧性和优雅。我也相信，在全体上纽大人的支持下，未来的你们必能凭借才能和魄力，在所在之地大有作为。
如你们所知，今年我即将卸任校长一职，重返教研岗位。我也开始了我的告别之旅。掐指一算，我曾在纽约大学近20场毕业典礼上发表演讲，是毕业典礼上的“老面孔”了。而今天，是我倒数第二次以纽大校长身份告别毕业生们。我怀着不舍又喜悦的复杂心情和所有的毕业生一起庆祝这一天。
2023届的毕业生们，你们是上海纽约大学的骄傲，我谨送上我、我的妻子Jennie和整个纽约大学社群的祝福，祝贺你们每一个人！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Chancellor Tong, Vice Chancellor Lehman, distinguished guests, colleagues, family, friends, and most of all the outstanding NYU Shanghai Class of 2023 – this is a glorious day indeed. A day to celebrate our graduates’ joys and triumphs. It is also the first time our entire NYU Shanghai community is gathering in-person since before the COVID-19 pandemic. It is truly an honor to be here. And what a year it’s been for NYU Shanghai!
NYU Shanghai reached a new milestone in its history, opening a new campus which nearly doubles the capacity of our previous campus, and provides wonderful academic, performance, and athletic spaces.
Nearly two dozen NYU Shanghai faculty were awarded prestigious academic awards and scholarships in China and abroad. Two undergraduate courses, including Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, and Money, taught by Professor Ilaf Elard and Natural Language Processing, taught by Professor Wilson Tam, were awarded First-Class Undergraduate Courses by the Shanghai Municipal Education Commission. This is the second time NYU Shanghai professors have been recognized with this accolade. Professor Weiwei Weng and Professor Steve Iams won the inaugural NYU Shanghai Teaching Excellence Award, recognized by students and faculty for outstanding teaching and mentorship.
NYU Shanghai students continue to excel in their studies and research, earning important grants and fellowships including the Erasmus Mundus and Fulbright awards. Those are just a few highlights from an extraordinary year. And at the heart of it all is you, our students.
When I look at NYU Shanghai, I see a student body that is compelled by a global outlook, and one that thrives on learning through differences. You have much to be proud of. You have navigated your studies during a remarkable time of upheaval that has required your flexibility, resilience, and grace. I know you will draw on your talent and drive, as well as on the strength of the NYU Shanghai community, to make a difference wherever your path leads you next.
As you know, I will be returning to teaching and research after this year. I have been on a farewell tour of sorts, speaking at nearly 20 NYU graduations. This is the penultimate ceremony where I will be addressing graduates as NYU’s president. And while it feels bittersweet, I am thrilled to celebrate this day with you, our NYU Shanghai graduates.
To each and every one of you, know that you take with you the pride and best wishes of my wife Jennie and me, and of the entire NYU community. Congratulations!
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奋楫扬帆启新程，上纽大2023届本科生毕业了！
2023届毕业生胡世一：心之所向，身之所往