将爱的价值谨记于心 ｜ 中国学生代表孙蕴喆上纽大2023届本科生毕业典礼发言

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2023届本科生毕业典礼发言
中国学生代表 | 孙蕴喆
发言以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
尊敬的Hamilton校长、童校长、雷蒙校长，尊敬的各位老师、各位来宾、家人和朋友们，以及遍布全世界的2023届毕业生们：
欢迎大家！
终于，我们团聚在这里。疫情的阴霾犹在，但我们终于可以站在前滩新校园，激动地宣布: “我们毕业了！我们怀抱信念，坚韧地共同度过了这跌宕起伏的四年！”
触动我写下这份文字的，是妈妈的一句感叹——“去了上纽大后你变化好大！”我震惊了几秒钟，回答道：“不，妈妈，我一点都没有变。我只是在探索自我，在认识我自己，在毫不犹豫地去尝试我相信的事情。”
是的，这种发展兴趣和个性的能力要归功于上纽大培养的批判性思维和包容态度。
我到底是谁呢？我一直梦想成为研究大脑运作，尤其是情绪领域的科学家。我能体验狂喜，时有沮丧，也能感知温暖。如此多的情绪充斥在我小小的脑子里，使我更加好奇情绪是如何产生的。为此，我信心满满地制定了一个“完美的”四年规划。
而后正如大家所知道的，疫情的暴发彻底打乱了我的计划，而我在上纽大的旅途也转向了截然不同的方向。
许多同学和我一样，去到了自己计划之外的海外学习中心。身处纽约大学全球教育体系，我相信，我们可能都去过一座陌生的城市、接触某种陌生的文化。我的朋友曾开玩笑说我们是“international orphan”（国际孤儿）。我们可能不知道能相信谁，我们也或多或少遭受过歧视——“呦，你看那有个老外”“Go back to your country!”（回你老家去！）
然而，正如“以世界为课堂，以天下为己任”所说，我们积极地融入新环境，学习新的语言，并且结交新的朋友。
四年之后，在我眼中，上海不再是单纯的“金融中心”；它是黄浦江沿岸在新旧冲击之下形成的和谐之美，是有着奇异感觉的“in-between cityness”（中间城市特质），是2022年上海静态管理后大家展现出的团结信念。
阿布扎比也不再是“石油与富裕”的简单符号，它也是友善与文化包容的象征——在这里，一个身穿黑袍的小女孩曾眨着眼睛问我：“我们能做朋友吗？”
说到纽约，连一位北京的出租车司机都曾好奇地问我：“呦，纽约挺危险吧？”但是，我为它充满魅力的一面倾倒，这座城市无私地拥抱着几乎所有人。
这种包容的精神注入到纽约大学，延伸至各个校园和海外学习中心。
身为大四学生，我们已经习惯忙于完成项目、寻找实习、规划未来。即便如此，在最黑暗的时刻，正是同窗站在身后给予力量。正如我独自在纽约申请研究生项目时，朋友曾拥抱焦虑的我，告诉我：“我们是一家人，我们会一直支持对方。”我的嘴唇颤动，无言哭泣着。
回首过往，没有言语能表达我的感激。接着，我听到脑海中有声音对我说：“多讽刺啊，愚蠢的女孩。你想要研究情绪，但是最初你甚至不承认、不接受、也不与人分享这份最真挚、最有力量且最复杂的人性——爱。”
如今，通过学习神经科学，我知道了爱的科学解释。它可以是一种通过社交互动和连接形成的安全感，通过下丘脑释放催产素和杏仁体释放多巴胺等神经化学物质而产生。
抛开科学解释，也正是在上纽大，我深刻地体会到，爱的确可以消除性别、年龄、国家、种族、宗教和文化之间的差异。无论我今后从事什么职业、导演怎样的人生，我都会将爱的价值谨记于心。
这是我在上纽大体悟到的人生哲学。我敢肯定，你们的人生哲学也会非常精彩、充满哲思。上纽大给我们提供了了解文化、理解他人的窗口；上纽大的每一个人都以不同的方式引导我们去学习和探索未知。
最重要的是，感谢在场所有的家人和同伴，感谢你们一直以来的支持。我知道我们所有的付出都会得到回报。期待见到我们所创造的世界。
2023届毕业生们，我们以梦为马，不负韶华。
上下滑动阅览英文原文
President Hamilton, Chancellor Tong, Vice-Chancellor Lehman, respected faculty, distinguished guests, family and friends, and the fellow members of the Class of 2023 around the world,
Welcome!
Finally here we are. Under the cloud of COVID-19, we can stand in our New Bund Campus and excitedly announce that “We are graduating! We showed our resilience with faith and went through four years of ups and downs together!”
The moment that motivated me to write these words was when my mom said, “上了NYUSH后你变化好大 / You changed a lot after you went to NYU Shanghai.” I was shocked for a few seconds, and replied: “No, Mom, I didn’t change at all. I am just exploring myself. I am just trying to figure out who I am and never hesitate to do what I believe in.”
And yeah, NYU Shanghai provides me with the ability to develop both interests and personality because of the critical thinking and the attitude of inclusiveness it cultivates.
Who am I? I always dreamed of being a scientist who studies how the brain works. Especially emotions. I experienced mania, I am depressed, I feel warmed. So many emotions squeezed into this tiny brain, and I wonder how emotions are generated. To achieve this goal, I planned out a perfect four-year academic plan. Then we all know what happened. COVID disrupted my plan, totally, and my journey at NYU Shanghai turned into a different direction.
Many of us ended up at a different global study site than we had planned–so did I. Due to the nature of NYU Shanghai, I believe that at some point, we have all landed in a new city, country, or even culture. My friend joked that we are “international orphans.” We might not know who to trust, we might face discrimination ——“呦，你看那有个老外.” “Go back to your country!” However, just as “Make the World Your Major” says, we strive to adapt to new environments, learn new languages, and make new friends.
After four years, Shanghai is no longer solely a financial hub; it is the balance of beauty between the old and the modern along the Huangpu River, it is the bizarre feeling of “in-between-cityness,” and it is the solidarity during the lockdown in February, 2022.
Abu Dhabi is no longer a simple symbol of “richness and oil.” It’s a kind and diverse city where a little girl in a black gown, blinking her eyes, asked me, “Can we be friends?”
And New York. Even a taxi driver in Beijing asked me with curiosity, “呦，这纽约挺危险吧？(New York is dangerous, right?)” However, I saw the charming part of New York: this city impartially embraces almost everyone. This inclusive spirit extends to NYU, and extends to the global study sites around the world.
As senior students, we are used to burying ourselves in completing projects, looking for internships, and planning the future. Nevertheless, in the darkest moment, it is our peers who have our backs.
Such as when I lived in New York alone and applied for graduate programs, my friends hugged me, and said, “We are family. We always support each other.” I was speechless and crying.
When looking back, I still have no words to express my gratitude. Then I hear a voice talking to me in my brain, “How ironic, silly girl, you want to study emotions but didn’t even admit, accept, and give the deepest, the most powerful and intricate value of humanity, love.”
Now I know what love is from my neuroscience classes. By definition, it can be a sense of security through social interaction and connection, formed by the releasing of neurochemicals, such as oxytocin from the hypothalamus and dopamine from the amygdala.
Aside from this scientific part, it was at NYU Shanghai where I experienced that love can truly eliminate the difference between genders, ages, countries, races, religions, and cultures. No matter what I will pick as my career, no matter what kind of life I will lead in the future, I will always keep the value of love in mind.
This is my life philosophy that I learned from NYU Shanghai. I am sure yours are thoughtful and splendid. NYU Shanghai has given us a lens to know other cultures, and even to better understand human beings. Everyone at NYU Shanghai has guided us in their own unique way to learn and explore the unknown.
Most importantly, thank you to all of the families and friends, thank you for always supporting us. I know all of our hard work will pay off. I can’t wait to see what we can create for the world. Class of 2023, 以梦为马，不负韶华。
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奋楫扬帆启新程，上纽大2023届本科生毕业了！
愿你们终身以学习为乐 | 上纽大校长童世骏2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞
做有条件的乐观主义者 | 上纽大雷蒙校长2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞