做有条件的乐观主义者 ｜ 上纽大雷蒙校长2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞
常务副校长 | 雷蒙
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
2023届毕业班的同学们：
今天是一个值得庆祝的日子。度过了不平凡的四年本科学习，你们即将踏上一个经过洗礼的更有希望的世界。
前路会有各种惊喜和惊吓等着你们。所以我想趁这个机会和你们分享两条小小的建议。
第一个建议是希望大家要保持阅读，尤其是听取真正关心我们的人推荐，来持续提高我们的认知水平和创新能力。
我本人就切身体会了这其中的好处。2019年我母亲在去世前向我推荐了弗兰克·迈考特写的《安吉拉的灰烬》一书。
我母亲出生于纽约市一个爱尔兰天主教家庭。该书的作者迈考特同样出生于纽约市的一个爱尔兰天主教家庭。他比我母亲小两岁。我母亲一直在纽约长大，而迈考特四岁的时候，随父母搬回了爱尔兰，并在那里度过了他的童年。《安吉拉的灰烬》就是迈考特对那段童年时光的记录。他年逾六十才开始动笔写作，但一经成书便广受读者欢迎，并为他赢得了普利策奖。
《安吉拉的灰烬》一书饱含贫困、酗酒、压抑、疾病和死亡的沉重情绪，却也充满着欢声笑语、有趣故事、宗教信仰以及社区支持的轻松和欣喜。这本书将我带入到一个我从未亲身经历的世界，并对我母亲深受在美国的爱尔兰文化熏陶的世界观有了更深刻的认识。
在爱尔兰的利默里克度过童年之后，迈考特返回了美国并进入纽约大学读书。在开始写作《安吉拉的灰烬》之前，他从事英语教育长达30年。他的第二部著作叫《就是这儿》，其中记述了他在纽约大学读书时的经历和种种困难。
迈考特比他大部分的纽大同学都要年长，也更穷困。在《就是这儿》一书中，他提到了他是这时才意识到自己讲的英语有浓重的爱尔兰口音，也是这时他才意识到他所成长的文化环境和其他美国同学是那么不同。
毕业那天，迈考特明白在纽约大学的经历改变了他的一生。他上过的课、读过的书、认识的同学，凡此种种都给他留下了深刻的印象，以至于30年后他仍能提笔生动地记录下当时的点点滴滴。
今天，在你们毕业的这一天，我相信在上海纽约大学读书的经历，你们上过的课，读过的书，以及最最重要的，你们所结识的这些来自五湖四海的同学，也会改变你们每一个人。
面向未来，我希望你们继续保持阅读的习惯，阅读那些能开阔你们思维和眼界的作品，阅读那些能帮助你们更深入理解你们所爱的人的书籍。
第二条建议则是受到保罗·罗默教授的启发。他2013年在上纽大教授《全球视野下的社会》这门课，2018年赢得诺贝尔经济学奖。
五年前，罗默教授发了一篇博文，描述了盲目乐观和有条件乐观的区别。盲目乐观认为自己不动手天上也会掉馅饼，而有条件乐观则认为好事的发生都是一个人努力的结果。
那篇博文主要讲的是关于气候变化的话题的。罗默教授认为好的公共政策应该要正向激励人们开展创新工作，从而获得有益的结果。他的观点启发了我，如果我们把有这种有条件乐观的精神推而广之成为一种普遍的处事态度，则能充分调动创新能力，形成有益的结果，并进一步提升创新的能力，从而形成一个生生不息的良性循环。
正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，科学家们才能不断积极探索并产生对人类社会至关重要贡献，比如攻克各种疑难杂症。
正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，各国的政治家、外交家们才能求同存异、搁置争议，积极促进国与国之间的合作。
也正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，才使得人类社会能接受用人工智能来做创造性的工作，并相信我们能摸索并建立一套完善的管理机制来预防这种强大的工具被滥用。
上海纽约大学2023届的同学们，你们即将踏上追求有意义、有价值的人生的新旅程，为这个世界贡献你们的热忱与才华。在此，我代表你们的老师，向你们表达我们的期许：
愿你们享受创作，体会亲手完成一件作品的成就感。
愿你们享受事业，欣赏自己的努力给社会带来的更大的价值。
愿你们好运相伴，并常怀谦卑和感恩之心。
愿你们润物无声地帮助他人。
愿你们时刻保持温良恭俭、关怀包容，不要自以为是、目中无人。
愿你们能坦然面对自己的无知、疑惑、软弱和踌躇。
愿你们身边有知音长伴。
愿你们明白人生不是一帆风顺，要做好应对山重水复的准备，但也要坚信会有柳暗花明的一天。
愿你们继续精彩的旅程，去体验丰富多彩的人生。
最后，希望你们常回上海、回浦东、回前滩看看。上纽大永远是你们的家。
祝贺大家！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Members of the Class of 2023.
Today is a day for celebration. After a challenging four years of undergraduate education, you are going out into a renewed, more hopeful world.
I would like this afternoon to share two modest suggestions that might, together, be of some assistance as you greet the surprises that await you in the next chapters of your lives.
My first suggestion is that you continuously expand your capacities for understanding and for innovation by reading literature recommended to you by people you love.
Let me share a personal example. Before my mother passed away in 2019, she suggested I read a book called Angela’s Ashes, by Frank McCourt.
My mother had been born to Irish Catholic parents in New York City. Frank McCourt had been born to Irish Catholic parents in New York City two years after my mother. While my mother grew up in New York, McCourt’s family moved back to Ireland when he was four years old, and that is where he spent his childhood. Angela’s Ashes is McCourt’s memoir of those childhood years. He did not write it until he was in his 60’s. And the book earned the Pulitzer Prize for biography and autobiography.
Angela’s Ashes is heavy with poverty, alcoholism, depression, disease, and death. But it is also light with songs and jokes, stories, religious faith, and community support. Reading that book transported me into a world that I had never experienced first-hand. But my mother’s worldview had definitely been shaped by her Irish heritage, and the book gave me a new appreciation for that worldview, and for my mother herself.
After spending his childhood in Limerick, Ireland, Frank McCourt came back to the United States and studied at NYU. He spent thirty years teaching English before he wrote Angela’s Ashes, and he went on to write another memoir called ’Tis, in which he discussed the challenges he had faced as an NYU student.
McCourt had been older and poorer than most of his NYU classmates. In ’Tis, he talks about how self-conscious he had been speaking English with an Irish accent. He talks about how self-conscious he felt having been raised in a different culture from his American classmates.
On his graduation day, Frank McCourt knew that NYU had changed him. The classes he had taken, the books he had read, and most of all the classmates he had gotten to know. They had changed him so much that he would be writing books about his experience three decades later.
Today, on your graduation day, I am confident that your NYU Shanghai experience has changed each of you. The classes you took. The books you read. And most importantly the classmates you got to know who had grown up in different cultures from the one you grew up in.
Looking to the future, I encourage you to build on those changes with more and more books that open your minds to worlds you have never experienced directly, and that deepen your understanding of people you love.
My second suggestion builds on an idea that has been well described by Professor Paul Romer, who taught GPS at NYU Shanghai back in 2013 and went on to win the Nobel Prize in Economics.
Five years ago, Professor Romer wrote a blog post in which he talked about the difference between complacent optimism (believing that good things will happen even if you don’t do anything) and conditional optimism (believing that if you do the work, then good things can happen).
The blog post was about climate change, and Professor Romer argued that the right kinds of social policies can motivate people to do the work to innovate in ways that are beneficial instead of harmful. But I think his discussion of the power of conditional optimism suggests a useful attitude towards all of life. It reminds us that we have the agency to innovate, and it reinforces the hope that our innovation can be a force for good.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads scientists to keep discovering cures for deadly diseases.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads diplomats to help very different countries to cooperate and benefit together, even when their interests are in some ways competitive with one another.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads societies to believe we will be able to use generative AI as a tool for creativity and innovation, and we will be able to develop the social institutions we need to protect our societies against the harms that could ensue if people abuse such a powerful tool.
Members of the NYU Shanghai Class of 2023, as you embark on lives of worth and purpose, lives of service to a world that desperately needs you, let me conclude by sharing a few hopes that we, your teachers, hold for you:
May you enjoy the special pleasures of craft — the private satisfaction of doing a task as well as it can be done.
May you enjoy the special pleasures of profession — the added satisfaction of knowing that your efforts promote a larger public good.
May you be blessed with good luck, and also with the wisdom to appreciate when you have been lucky rather than skillful.
May you find ways to help others under circumstances where they cannot possibly know that you have done so.
May you be patient, and gentle, and tolerant, without becoming smug, self-satisfied, or arrogant.
May you always be able to confess ignorance, doubt, vulnerability, and uncertainty.
May you build long and loving relationships with people whom you respect.
May you know enough bad weather that you never take sunshine for granted, and enough good weather that your faith in the coming of spring is never shaken.
May you be able to travel frequently beyond the places that are comfortable and familiar, so that your appreciation for the miraculous diversity of life grows ever stronger.
And may your steps lead you often back to Shanghai. Back to Pudong. Back to the New Bund. For you will always be members of the NYU Shanghai family. And we will always be happy to welcome you home.
Congratulations.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奋楫扬帆启新程，上纽大2023届本科生毕业了！
2023届毕业生Adib El Ounani：在上纽大，跳出舒适圈的这四年