愿你们终身以学习为乐 ｜ 上纽大校长童世骏2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2023届本科生毕业典礼致辞
校长 | 童世骏
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
尊敬的来宾们，2023届毕业生们，家长们，同事们和所有为首届从上海纽约大学前滩新校园毕业的学生提供过支持的人们，以及在过去四年里，有幸称呼彼此为“同学”的各位：
下午好！毕业快乐！
或许你们会想，我为什么要用“同学”这个汉语词汇，它的字面含义是“共同学习”。我脑海中似乎还找不到一个对应的英文单词能准确表达同样的意思。
上世纪初，北京大学传奇校长蔡元培邀请时年25岁的梁漱溟来北大教印度哲学。梁漱溟是二十世纪最重要的中国哲学家之一。起初梁漱溟犹豫不决，蔡元培于是这样说服他，“你不要是当老师来教人，你当是来共同学习好了！”
当然，学习不同于教学。但在我看来，教学是最好的学习方式。我敢肯定，在座的许多毕业生，都对过去四年中至少一次课堂展示，感到特别自豪。
学习也不同于研究，但做研究，却是另一个最好的学习方式。在座的你们都应该明了，一位典型的上纽大教授会敦促你们，学术问题的答案须经过自我的慎思和审辨求得，而非诉诸于维基百科或ChatGPT。
学习自然也不同于其他活动，比如设计一栋房子或者经营一门生意。但是从某种程度上说，做一个实践者，当一名大学管理者是最好的学习方式。尤其是当你很想深刻理解哲学概念里的“合理”与“讲理”，很想知道“道德辩护”和“道德动机”有何区别，也经常思索“我应该做什么”和“我将要做什么”的时候。
我希望在上海纽约大学和你们一起学习，回答这两个问题：第一，如何充分利用我们现有的资源；第二，如何避免我们的优势变成劣势。
提到上海纽约大学的丰富资源，我们很容易想到学校线上和线下的学术资源，特别是我们美丽的新校园，配备了科学、体育和艺术等方面的先进设施。
毫无疑问，这些资源重要且宝贵。但是，在我看来，比这更重要的资源，是你们来到上海纽约大学时，身上散发的无限潜力。这种潜力，让指导你们的教授，与你共同学习的成人，感到工作如此有意义，如此光荣。
亲爱的2023届毕业生们，在你们即将告别本科生涯，离开校园的时刻，我恳请你们继续发挥潜力，那对学校和我个人都是一种恩惠。
相比于如何充分利用现有资源，我更关心的是，如何避免我们的优势变成劣势。
歌德说，“不懂外语者不懂自己的语言”；卢梭言，“只见过一个民族的人是不懂人类的，他只懂与他一起生活的那个民族”；孔子曰，“有朋自远方来，不亦乐乎?”
若这些大家和圣贤论断成立，那么，在帮助年轻人成为扎根本国的全球公民上，作为中外合办大学的上纽大，优势几乎是无与伦比的——在这里，学生毕业时能说流利的英语和汉语；在这里，学生能和来自世界各国的“麒麟同学”共度四年时光。
但这种优势不会自动实现，如果缺少了上纽大家庭中每一个个体的努力，我们的优势就只是徒留在理论层面，没有实践意义。
作为国际学校的学生，尤其是来自不同国家的学生，往往会以此为借口，对学校所在国或当地社区的了解过少；同样地，作为一名国际学校的学生，尤其是作为来自某个特定国家的本土学生，也很容易使自己对外界了解不够。
从理论上讲，上海纽约大学意在帮助学生更好地了解自己的本国以及世界其他地区，或借用19世纪英国哲学家约翰·斯图尔特·密尔的一句话，帮助学生不“仅仅了解某个问题的自己那个方面”。
但同样，在理论上拥有优势并不一定在实践中具有优势。作为上海纽约大学校长，如果我真正在这些年中学到了什么，那就是和我的同事以及学校所有同学一起尽力将我们的理论优势转化为实践优势。
因此，我再次恳求你们，亲爱的2023届毕业生，我希望你们在走出校园后继续努力，向自己和他人极力展示，上海纽约大学已经成功地教会了你们如何不断尝试了解任何有关问题的“双方”——从《金银盾》故事中的金银盾双方，到那些日夜发展着并将影响到我们中的每个人、我们后代的每个人的国际事务的不同方面。
谈到人类的未来，上海纽约大学是一个重要的国际学习中心，上纽大毕业生是全球层面学习过程的受益者和推动者，其价值是怎么强调都不过分的。
虽然近年来，有人喜欢谈论某段历史——“自1500年以来，15起战争中，有11例是源于新兴国家对守成国家的挑战”。然而我更想引用另一位英国哲学家伯特兰·罗素的话。一百多年前，他就在书中预言，“中国将成为继美国之后世界上最强大的国家”。他有另一种历史叙述，“历史上，不同文明间的碰撞常常被证明是人类进步的里程碑。希腊向埃及学习，罗马向希腊学习，阿拉伯向罗马帝国学习，中世纪欧洲向阿拉伯学习，文艺复兴时期的欧洲向拜占庭学习。”
罗素在这里似乎谈论的是一种单向度的学习过程。但是，在我们这个时代，不同国家之间的学习不能只是单向的，它可以而且应该是相互的、互惠的。关键在于，像上海纽约大学推崇和实践的相互学习中，不存在零和游戏。
我要就此打住了。此时此刻，你们的学习经历和成就才应当是焦点。殷切期待你们终身以学习为乐，且不忘在自己有幸服务的人群中推广学习之乐，以此不断证明你们在上海纽约大学学习的无尚价值。
谢谢！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Distinguished guests, members of the Class 2023, parents, colleagues and everyone who has worked for the first cohort of NYU Shanghai students graduating from our New Bund Campus, and everyone who could luckily call each other “同学” over the last four years,
Good afternoon, and good commencement!
You may be wondering why I used the Chinese word “同学,” which literally means “learning together”; as far as I know there seems to be no English word exactly expressing this meaning.
When Cai Yuanpei, the legendary President of the Peking University of the 1910s and 1920s, invited Liang Shuming, one of the most important Chinese philosophers in the 20th century in my mind, to teach Indian philosophy at Beida at the age of 25, he managed to pursue the hesitating Liang by saying, “you may well come to learn together with others, rather than to teach others”.
Learning, of course, is different from teaching, but the best way to learn is to teach, in my view; and many of you, I’m pretty sure, are now particularly proud of at least one of your classroom presentations over the past four years.
Learning is certainly also different from research, but the best way to learn is to do research: that’s why, I suppose you all have known, a typical NYU Shanghai professor would urge you to provide answers to academic questions as results of your own reasoning, rather than results of searching on Wikipedia, or talking with ChatGPT.
Learning is naturally also different from other activities such designing a building or running a business, but to some degree the best way to learn is to be an practitioner, to be an university administrator, for example, especially if you want to better understand important concepts such as “rationality” and “reasonableness,” and the important differences between, for example, the ideas of “moral justification” and “moral motivation,” or between issues concerning “what I am supposed to do” and “what I am going to do.”
Among the things I have hopefully learnt most about here at NYU Shanghai together with you are concerned with two questions. On the one hand, how to get the most out of the resources available to us; on the other hand, how to avoid turning our advantages into our disadvantages.
Mentioning the rich resources available to us here at NYU Shanghai, one may easily think of the online and off-line academic resources of our school, especially our wonderful new campus, including its wonderful facilities for science, sport and art.
These are certainly very precious and important resources. But the most important resource, in my view, is your unlimited potential for personal development you brought to us when you entered NYU Shanghai, the potential that has made the job of your professors or your adult “同学” （learning together）so meaningful and so honorable.
At this moment when you are leaving your developmental stage as undergraduate students, dear Class of 2023, I urge you to do a great favor for the school and for me personally by continuing to make the most of this potential on your own after you leave this campus.
Compared with the question of how to get the most out of the resources available to us, I am even more concerned with the question of how to address the risk of our advantages being turned into disadvantages.
If Goethe was right when he said “those who know nothing of foreign languages know nothing of their own,” if Rousseau was right when he said “whoever has seen only one people does not know men; he knows only the people with whom he has lived;” or, if Confucius was right when he said “is it not pleasant to have friends coming from afar?,” the advantages of NYU Shanghai as a Sino-foreign collaborative university, where students graduate fluent both in English and in Chinese, and where students spend their university lives together with their “Qilin fellows” from countries all over the world, is almost next to none in helping a young person to become a citizen of the world rooted in his or her own tradition.
But this kind of advantage will not materialize automatically; without great efforts from all our community members, they will remain advantages in theory but not in practice.
Being a student of an international school, for example, not to speak of being a student from other countries, can easily become an excuse for knowing too little about the school’s host country or the local community; similarly, being a student of an international school, not to speak of being a native student from one particular country, can easily become an excuse for knowing too little about the outside world.
Theoretically speaking, an international school like NYU Shanghai was designed to help students to better understand both their native countries and other parts of the world, or, to borrow a phrase from John Stuart Mill, a British philosopher of the 19th century, to help students not to “only know their own sides of the question”.
But, again, an advantage in theory is not necessarily an advantage in practice, and in my role as the chancellor of NYU Shanghai, if I have really learnt something in these years, my duty is to do my best, together with my colleagues and all of my 同学 in the school, to turn our theoretical advantages into practical ones.
And here is one more plea from me to you, my dear students of the class of 2023: I hope you will continue to do your best, after this ceremony, to show to yourselves as well as to other people, that NYU Shanghai has successfully taught you how to make constant efforts to know better and better “both sides” of any relevant question, from both sides of the golden-silver shield in the story 金银盾, to both sides of those international affairs that are developing day and night and will affect every one of us and every one of our fellow human beings in the future.
Talking about the future of humanity, we can never exaggerate the importance of a school like NYU Shanghai as an international learning center and a group of people like NYU Shanghai graduates as both beneficiaries and the promoters of human learning at the international level.
While in recent years some people like to talk about that part of the human history where “11 of 15 cases since 1500 where a rising power emerged to challenge a ruling power, war occurred”, I prefer to quote from another British philosopher, Bertrand Russell, who, in the same book in which he predicted more than one century years ago that “China is capable of being the greatest Power in the world after the United States”，had another kind of historical narrative: “Contacts between different civilizations have often in the past proved to be landmarks in human progress. Greece learnt from Egypt, Rome from Greece, the Arabs from the Roman Empire, medieval Europe from the Arabs, and Renaissance Europe from the Byzantines.”
Here Russell appears to be talking about a more or less one-way learning. But learning between different nations in our times does not need to be merely one-way; it can and should rather be mutual and reciprocal. The key point is this: from mutual and reciprocal learning processes, like the ones practiced and promoted here at NYU Shanghai, there comes no zero-sum game.
I have to stop here; after all, at this moment, your learning experiences and achievements should be the focus. All I want to share with you is my most sincere hope that you will have a future as life-long learners and promoters of the life-long learning for the people you have the honor to serve, and that you will constantly prove the value of having studied at NYU Shanghai thereby.
Thank you all for your attention.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
奋楫扬帆启新程，上纽大2023届本科生毕业了！
2023届上纽大毕业生张雅淇：教育，是我确定想做的事