纽约大学董事会主席Evan Chesler上纽大2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
纽约大学董事会主席 | Evan Chesler
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
2024届毕业生们，大家好！
我十分荣幸地以纽约大学董事会主席和纽约大学校友的身份，欢迎大家来到今年的上海纽约大学毕业典礼。
同时也欢迎到场的演讲嘉宾、纽约大学领导、各界同仁、家长和朋友们，你们的到来让今天的现场熠熠生辉。
此情此景让我不禁回想起很久以前自己在纽约大学的求学时光。
我大学读的是历史学专业，那段求学经历深刻地影响了我对世界的洞察。来自教授们的启迪，鼓励我们审辨思考、大胆提问；不同成长背景的同学们则让我更彻底地开眼看世界。所有这些学生时代的经历都塑造了我的思想，奠定了我日后事业和生活的基础。
同学们，我们今天欢聚在此，是为了祝贺你们在这所一流的研究型大学里，通过了严苛的学业考验。希望你们为此感到骄傲，并好好庆祝一番。同时，我也恳请你们未来无论走到哪里，都时刻牢记那些“醍醐灌顶”的瞬间和不可错失的连结。
未来的人生道路上，不仅有校董会、良师益友和整个学校的骄傲相伴，在背后默默支持你们的家人也将一路相随。
从今天开始，你们也将加入纽约大学全球65万名校友的行列，以一种新的身份延续你们和学校之间的连结。通过我的亲身经历，我可以告诉你们，这种连结的力量很强大，也很持久，将贯穿你们的一生。
祝大家前程似锦！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Greetings, Class of 2024!
As the Chair of NYU’s Board of Trustees and as a proud two-time alumnus of NYU, it is my great privilege to welcome you to the Grand Theater for NYU Shanghai’s commencement ceremony.
Welcome, distinguished guests and speakers, NYU leadership, colleagues, family, and friends. It is an honor to be here.
Prior to addressing you today, I reflected on my own time at NYU so many years ago.
I was a history major, and I recall the discourse that yielded insights about the world around us. Professors who prompted me to think critically and to ask big questions. Classmates from different walks of life who opened my eyes to new ideas. These moments shaped the way I think and helped form an outlook that I have brought to my career and my life ever since my time here as a student.
Class of 2024, today we celebrate your completion of rigorous courses of study at a leading global research university. As you take pride in your tremendous achievements, and enjoy today’s most well-deserved and magnificent celebration, I urge you to reflect on your own profound moments of discovery and connection, that will stay with you wherever you go.
Know that you carry with you the pride of the Trustees, the faculty, your fellow classmates, and the entire University. And I’m sure you carry the pride of your families who have helped you arrive at this moment.
Today you are also poised to join the ranks of more than 650,000 alumni from around the world, as you embark on a new, lifelong relationship with NYU. I can say firsthand that it is a meaningful and enduring bond.
Congratulations to you all, and I wish you the best!
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
上纽大毕业生Shreesh Tripathi：一位尼泊尔学生对经济学的跨国求索