上海纽约大学中国学生代表李语童2024届本科生毕业典礼发言

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼发言
中国学生代表 | 李语童
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
童世骏校长、雷蒙校长、衛周安教务长和Mills校长，尊敬的各位来宾、各位老师，亲爱的家人和朋友们，以及我的同学——2024届毕业生们：
大家下午好！
我依然记得2021年的夏天，还是大一新生的我参加了大四学生的毕业典礼，为他们唱起校歌。当时，我想象着自己穿着那件紫袍，在东方艺术中心的舞台上拍照摆姿势。
然而今年，我已经在这里参加学校首次在前滩举办的毕业典礼。我们可能对校园周边还不够熟悉，却已经爱上了这个地方。这一切让我不禁进一步思考变化的意义——我们所见证的变化，以及我们自身的变化。
对世界来说，2020年是特殊的一年。对我们来说，这一年有另一层含义，我们从高中毕业，进入上海纽约大学这所年轻又前景广阔的大学，寻求未知的未来。在那个充满不确定性的时期，我们毅然选择了上海纽约大学，决心之坚定，我不再赘述。当时的我们刚刚踏入成年人的世界，就已告诉自己：“这是我愿意迈出的一步！”
于是，我们相遇了，在校园或线上见面、交谈、学习，有时会发现彼此的思想如此相似，仿佛在和另一个自己交谈，有时又通过思维的碰撞，激发出多样的对话。
在上海纽约大学，我们学会塑造全球视角，养成批判性思维习惯，沉浸在人文与科学的海洋，突破未被探索的知识边界，发挥领导力，为社区和民众服务。我们得到了同龄人和教授们的无尽帮助、家人朋友们的大力支持，这些都赋予我们逐梦的力量。
很快，我们分别了，或因静态管理，或因航班限制，我们并不总是在一起。大家都曾在不止一个校园里学习过——世纪大道教学楼、纽约校园、阿布扎比校园、各海外学习中心、“就近入学”（Go Local）项目、Zoom远程课堂，以及现在的前滩校园。
不同的学习环境造就了不同的经历，有人在伦敦或巴黎漫步，有人视纽约西村或阿布扎比的萨迪亚特岛为临时的“家”。所有这些经历都塑造了我们的视角，巩固了我们作为全球公民的意识。我们加深了对多样性、公平和包容的理解，并迫不及待地想要帮助社会实现正义和可持续发展，提升社会韧性。
我在上海纽约大学主修的两个专业，使我探索商业知识和人与城市的联系，了解了城市和市场动态的快速变化。通过概念化的课程知识，我看到了快速城市化的社区和经济全球化带来的机遇和挑战，也愿意成为推动变革的一份子，就像我们在座的所有人一样，为构建更美好的社会贡献力量。
我们当中有些人研究了疫情期间的静态管理对上海社区食品供应的影响，有人志愿帮助来沪外来务工人员子女适应新环境，有人研究与人类共处同一环境的生物的基因表达。从上海至遍布世界的角落，我们永远都在拥抱变化，并成为美好社会变革的一部分。
回顾我们来到这里的旅程，看这一路的变化与挑战，我不想将一切经历美化成一路坦途。我们摸着石头过河，走到现在，有些挣扎可能已留下伤痕。
然而，正因为成长中的烦恼，才造就了如今的我们。身为上海纽约大学的毕业生，我们心怀热忱、满怀信心，在多样的个性化道路上继续求索，不断创造社会价值。
一想到“全球公民”这个概念，我们首先想到的是对世界的奉献之心。当时我还没有意识到，站出来应对变化是需要勇气和决心的。我感到非常荣幸，也很感恩能成为这个卓越群体中的一员，与大家并肩站在一起。
“无穷的远方，无数的人们，都与我有关。”这句名言提醒着我们，不管下一站我们身处世界何方，这份友谊、这种联结会一直延伸下去。
未来在等着我们。变化可能是唯一不变的存在。但我知道，我们已经准备好了，上海纽约大学2024届毕业生的未来，注定绚烂多彩。
愿我们毕业快乐，梦想成真，谢谢！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Chancellor Tong, Vice Chancellor Lehman, Provost Waley-Cohen, President Mills, distinguished guests, faculty, family, friends, and my fellow Class of 2024 graduates,
Welcome, and good afternoon!
I still remember singing alma mater at the commencement for the Class of 2021 at the end of my freshman year, picturing how I, in that purple gown, would pose for the photo on the stage of the Oriental Art Center. This year, however, for the first time, we are hosting our commencement in Qiantan. The neighborhood we may be new to, but definitely have grown to love. And this further made me wonder about the changes. The changes we witnessed and the changes in us.
The year 2020 was unprecedented in many ways. Amidst a time of instability, many of us were graduating from high school and considering entering this young and promising educational institution. We exercised courage and determination even from this initial decision, stepping into our adulthood with larger goals and ambitions for ourselves and our communities.
And there we were, on campus or online, seeing, talking, studying with each other. We found ourselves to be strangely alike even when coming from very different backgrounds, and collided thoughts to spark diverse conversations. In our classes, we learned to form global perspectives and to think critically. We pushed boundaries in the arts and sciences, and took on leadership roles to serve communities and people. We received endless help from peers and professors and support from family and friends. With all these opportunities, we were empowered to dream.
Yet before we realized it, we parted our ways. Maybe it was the lockdown, maybe it was restrictions on flights. We weren’t always together. All of us have studied in three or more campuses: Century Avenue 1555, New York, Abu Dhabi, Study Away sites, Go Local Programs, Zoom University, and here we are, in Qiantan. We took city walks in London and Paris and called West Village and Saadiyat Island home. With all the different studying environments leading to very different experiences, togetherly, they shape our views and solidify our identities as global citizens. We understand more about diversity, equity, and inclusion and are eager to help our society achieve the next level of social justice, sustainability, and resilience.
For me, at NYU Shanghai, my two majors propelled me to understand the fundamentals of the business world and our connections with cities. Through the critical lens of diversity and inclusion, I studied and researched on gentrification’s impact on marginalized communities and spatial inequality of school districts, issues that I encounter around my neighborhood and present many around the world. With strong implications on society and the world around us, we furthered in our individualized paths. We researched the impact of lockdowns on food supplies in Shanghai communities, and others volunteered to help migrant children adapt to new surroundings or studied gene expressions of creatures co-living in the same environment as us. Starting with Shanghai and extending to communities around the globe, we committed to being part of the change for a better society for all of us.
Looking back at our journey here, with all the changes and challenges, it is impossible to sugarcoat it as an easy trip. We all stumbled on our way here, facing isolation, cultural barriers, tears of frustrations and many regrets. The challenges may be left as bruises. Yet it is with all the growing pains, we are now the NYU Shanghai graduates moving forth into our various paths with a sense of hope and optimism.
Class of 2024: as we journey on, may we bring a sense of courage and determination that has characterized our time in NYU Shanghai to our individual fields. May we bring change and light to various spaces we find ourselves in. As a Chinese sentence that rings true for us, 无穷的远方，无数的人们，都与我有关, reminding us that we are each interconnected with global communities and must move forward with empathy for all.
I am honored and grateful to be a member of this extraordinary class and to stand with all of you, and I’m excited for what the future will hold. Class of 2024: I’m certain that our future will be bright.
May we never stop dreaming, class of 2024, 祝我们毕业快乐，梦想成真!
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
上海纽约大学校长童世骏2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
上海纽约大学常务副校长雷蒙2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
上海纽约大学教务长衛周安2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞