纽约大学校长Linda G. Mills上纽大2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
纽约大学校长 | Linda G. Mills
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
1938年，我的家族生活在维也纳，彼时，纳粹主义正悄然崛起。包括美国在内，多国纷纷收紧移民政策，许多犹太人流离失所。但我家却幸得一位名叫Martin Gang的洛杉矶娱乐行业律师相救。Martin为我们提供了关键的宣誓书和经济支持，让我的外祖父母和母亲得以顺利移民至美国。
可并非所有人都如此幸运。我外祖母的妹妹Jenny Berger，她在美国举目无亲。她和家人迫切渴望逃离欧洲，寻找一线生机。
就在此时，一个意料之外的机会出现了：何凤山，当时的中国驻维也纳总领事，一位中国的外交官，愿意为前往中国的奥地利犹太人提供签证。
1939年春天的一个周五下午，Jenny前往维也纳的轮船公司，询问前往上海的船票。得到的回答却是船票已售罄。但她被告知，如果周一再来，可能会有希望。
不愿错过这个渺茫机会的她，在外面一直守候。周五、周六、周日......她在街头度过了漫长的三个夜晚，眼看等票的队伍也越排越长。
周一早上，传来了振奋人心的消息：有船票了！她终于为自己、丈夫和两岁的儿子Gustav预订到了船票！
船在海上航行了漫长的一个月后，我的家人和近三万名欧洲犹太人一起，在上海找到了避风港。
多年前，我问Jenny的女儿Ellen，作为一个在上海这座伟大城市出生的人，那段经历之于她的意义是什么，她深情地说：“我们是因中国而得救的。”
何凤山的勇敢和仁慈，拯救了数千名奥地利犹太人，其中就有我的七位亲人。
令人鼓舞的是，在上海纽约大学，你们也体现了这种弥合分歧、不惧冒险，并深刻理解和珍视普世人性与情感的精神。无论是在课堂学习中，与室友的相处中，还是在全球各地的学习交流中，甚至是在滨江散步与同学偶遇中，你们都在不断地学习和成长。
如今，东西方之间的关系从未像现在这样重要。当外界对西方大学在中国的发展持怀疑态度时，纽约大学却看到了无限可能。你们的存在有力地证明了我们的成功。
在这个特别的日子里，我向你们所有人表示最诚挚的祝贺，并热烈欢迎Chesler主席、各位董事会成员、童世骏校长、雷蒙常务副校长、衞周安教务长、来自华东师范大学的校领导及姚明先生。
教职员工们、亲朋好友们：感谢你们在这个重要的日子与我们在一起，与我们共同见证这一荣耀的时刻。
祝贺上海纽约大学2024届毕业生。
上下滑动阅览英文原文
In 1938, my family was living in Vienna amid the rise of Nazism. Several countries had strict immigration policies, including the United States, which prevented many Jews from finding their way to safety. My immediate family was saved by an entertainment lawyer living in Los Angeles named Martin Gang. Martin provided the affidavits and financial backing that my grandparents and my mother needed to emigrate to the United States. Others, however—like my grandmother’s sister Jenny Berger—did not have a contact in the U.S. She and her family became increasingly desperate to find a way out of Europe. They learned of a surprising opportunity: Ho Feng-Shan, a Chinese diplomat posted to Vienna, was offering visas to Austrian Jews willing to travel to China.
On a Friday afternoon in the spring of 1939, Jenny visited the steamship company in Vienna to inquire about tickets to Shanghai. She was told there were none left. She was also told that if she came again on Monday, they might have more. Not wanting to lose her place in line, she stepped outside and waited. She slept on the street Friday night then Saturday night and Sunday night, too. A line formed behind her. When she entered the office Monday morning, lifesaving news: tickets were available. She booked passage for herself, her husband, and their two-year-old son, Gustav. The journey took a month. My family—along with nearly 30,000 other European Jews—found safety in Shanghai. Years back, when I spoke to Jenny’s daughter Ellen, who was born right here in this great city, I asked her what it meant: “We were saved because of China,” she said. Mr. Ho's bravery and compassion rescued thousands of Austrian Jews, including seven of my family members.
It is deeply heartening that at NYU Shanghai you too embody this spirit of bridging divides, taking risks, and developing a deep and abiding sense of our shared humanity.
You learn these skills in the classroom; through roommate assignments; when you study at other global sites; or even when you have a chance meeting with a student, walking along the waterfront.
Today, the relationship between East and West has rarely been as important as it is now. Where others doubted that Western universities in China could thrive, NYU saw possibilities. You are a living testament to our success. On this special day, my sincerest congratulations to all of you. And my warmest welcome to Chairman Chesler and Trustees; Chancellor Tong; Vice Chancellor Lehman; Provost Waley-Cohen; Leadership from ECNU; And Mr. Yao Ming.
Faculty, families and friends too: Thank you for being with us on this significant day.
Congratulations to the NYU Shanghai Class of 2024.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
从兴趣到卓越：上纽大毕业生李泓舟、门秋彤的科研达人炼成记