姚明上海纽约大学毕业典礼致辞：闪光背后是铺满试错脚印的勇气之路

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
中国篮球协会主席、姚基金创始人姚明
致辞以中文进行，以下为中文原文和英文译文
大家好！尊敬的童校长、雷蒙校长、衛周安教务长、Mills校长，上海纽约大学2024届毕业生、家长及各位嘉宾，大家下午好！非常荣幸能获得这枚荣誉奖章，也非常荣幸能够和在座的各位一起，见证这么多风华正茂的毕业生——他们生命中的重要时刻。
看到这么多毕业生穿上学士服，让我回想起自己毕业的时候，我也穿过，但我穿得时候已经38岁了。所以，非常开心看到你们这么年轻就穿上这身衣服，走出校园，踏出新的一步，进入到一片更加广阔的世界。
年轻，就意味着无限可能，就会意味着在座的各位有更多的机会去尝试、去收获、去失去，在挫折之后再重新校对目标。我仍然记得我当时去美国之后的第一场比赛，11分钟，0分，2个篮板，2个失误，3个犯规，这显然是一个比较糟糕的开始，尤其是在万众瞩目之下。那当时，我赛后只能宽慰自己，就告诉自己说：“万事总有一个开始，这就是我的开始。今后不管我能达到什么，都是从这开始的，都源于此。”两天之后，我就要进行下一场比赛了。幸运的是，那场比赛，我终于投进了一个球，得了两分。不幸的是，那场比赛我就投进了那一个球。
当我们现在很多时候去回想失败和错误的时候，总是更能心平气和地面对，甚至开一些玩笑，仿佛那没什么大不了的。应该有很多人认为，像这样去成功了之后再谈论挫折好像是一件很酷的事儿，但反过来看，我们只有去勇敢地面对，才有可能收获一张成功的入场券。因为当你拒绝面对挫折的时候，挫折就会变成永恒。
曼德拉曾经跟我们说过：“我从未失败过，要么赢得胜利，要么学到东西。”我们经常会过于执着做出正确的选择，但有的时候，一些错误才会给我们带来更多的收获——
从错误中，我们可以获得下一次可能成功的正确打开方式。
在我们篮球领域里，有一个词叫做“missed field goals”，也就是投丢了多少球。有一些机构对此做了排名，非常有趣的排名，排在前面的都是一些传奇运动员，大家应该都知道，有科比、詹姆斯、哈弗里切克、埃尔文海耶斯、卡尔马龙、诺维斯基、卡梅隆安东尼、贾巴尔、乔丹、卡特等等。如果你往下数个100多位、200位，你们或许就可以找到我的名字啊。他们都是在一次次投篮失败后，不断精进，直到命中下一个球。传奇之所以成为传奇，不仅仅是在于他们取得了多少成就，更是在于他们敢于面对失败，再重新出发。
那今天，我并不想去过多地讲述那些超级巨星的故事，因为大家都知道，而是要介绍一个大家不太熟悉的球员，叫做安德烈·英格拉姆（Andre Ingram）。21岁时，他大学毕业，并没有被NBA选中，之后他在发展联盟效力了11年，其间还去海外，包括澳大利亚、欧洲一些联赛打球。他一直保持着发展联盟的三分球和出战场次记录。给大家介绍一下，其实他在发展联盟打球的这段时间，他的收入并不足以支撑整个的一个开支，他甚至还要去兼职贴补家用，开着一辆空调已经坏掉的旧车去一些学生家里补课。在这样的11年中，他没有停下向NBA进发的脚步。
2018年4月9日，英格拉姆终于获得了加盟洛杉矶湖人队的机会，与球队签下了一份十天的短期合同。第二天，32岁的英格拉姆完成了自己的NBA首秀，得到了19分，并命中了四记三分球。他告诉《纽约时报》的记者：“25岁时，我不在NBA，当时我是失败的。”像这样一个球员，他不是一个天才球员，也没有出众的身体条件，没有殷实的家庭背景。在他的职业生涯里，他更多的是要面对失败和挫折，就像我们许许多多人在生活和工作中一样，在失败之后，校准方向，重新上路，这才是英格拉姆带给我们的感动。
在篮球场上，最简单地避免犯错误的方式，就是把球抱在自己的怀里，或者把球都传给你的队友。这样，你会避免失误，但你永远不会得分。这个道理同样适用于我们的生活，最大的错误永远不在于你的决定有多么愚蠢，或你的行动有多么鲁莽，而是停在那里，什么也不做。
我们能够在每一次错误中，收获一次力量，一次战胜恐惧的力量。我们之所以不愿意犯错误，是源于对错误结果的恐惧。而事实上，人们最深远的恐惧，莫过于对未来未知的恐惧。反之，当我们付出行动，做出决定，无论如何，我们自然而然会有一个更加清晰的方向。到那时，我们才能更有信心地走下去。
我相信在座的所有人都可以正确理解上述所提到的犯错代表着什么。我们并非在鼓励大家犯错，但是要有直面并战胜错误的勇气。
同学们，今天之后，你们将要展开一段新的旅程，这是一段充满未知的、瞬息万变的、沮丧与惊喜并存的旅程。在这段旅程里，每个人都没有办法找到最快的途径达到终点，最重要的是去勇敢地迈出每一步。因为，当我们回望过去，每个闪光的背后，必定是那条铺满了试错脚印的勇气之路。所以说，At this moment, I challenge you. Make a mistake and let it cheer you on. Thank you. （此时此刻，我向你们发出挑战。勇敢去试错吧，让这些经历一路为你喝彩。谢谢！）
上下滑动阅览英文译文
Dear Chancellor Tong, Vice-Chancellor Lehman, Provost Waley-Cohen, President Mills, the Class of 2024, parents, and distinguished guests! It is a great honor to receive this medal of honor, and I am extremely honored to be with you to witness this important moment of so many young graduates.
Seeing so many graduates in their caps and gowns makes me think back to my own commencement. The last time I was dressed in such academic robes was when I received my bachelor’s degree when I was 38. Thus, it fills me with immense delight to see you all donning these ceremonial robes in the prime of your youth. Leaving campus with pride, you all are poised to take steps into the vast expanse of the world, a monumental step indeed.
Youth means infinite possibilities, which means everyone here has more opportunities to try, to gain, to lose, and to adjust your goals after setbacks. I still remember in my first regular season match in the NBA – 11 minutes, 0 points, 2 rebounds, 2 turnovers, 3 fouls – it was obviously a terrible way to start, especially with all the attention on me. I told myself at that time: everything has a beginning, and this is how I begin my game. Everything I can reach and achieve in the future starts from this point. Of course, I didn’t have much time to adjust. I had to play the next game in two days. Fortunately, I made the first shot of my NBA career in that game. But unfortunately, that was the only one shot I made in that game.
But that’s at least some positive change, isn’t it? When we think about our failures and mistakes, it’s easier to take them in stride and even joke about them as if they were no big deal. Many people think that it’s cool only when successful people talk about their setbacks. On the contrary, it’s only those who are brave enough to face them who can get the ticket to success, because when you refuse to face your setbacks, setbacks become eternal.
Mandela once said, “I never lose. I either win or learn.” Oftentimes we can get too obsessed with making the right choices, but there are times that with a few mistakes under our belt, we can gain even more. Through our errors and mistakes, we can acquire the right approach that can pave our path to success the next time.
In basketball, there’s a term called “missed field goals,” which refers to the number of shots you’ve missed. Some organizations have made rankings, and interestingly enough, the top ones are all legendary athletes: Kobe Bryant, LeBron James, John Havlicek, Elvin Hayes, Karl Malone (current ranking: Kobe Bryant, LeBron James, John Havlicek, Elvin Hayes, Karl Malone, Dirk Nowitzki, Carmelo Anthony, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael Jordan, Vince Carter). They fail shot after shot and keep improving until they hit the next one. What makes a legend is not just how much they accomplish, but that they dare to face their failures and start over again.
Today, I don’t want to elaborate on the stories of superstars in great detail. Instead, I would like to introduce a lesser-known player – Andre Ingram. After graduating from college at the age of 21, he wasn’t drafted into the NBA. He played in the NBA G-League for 11 years, even going to Australia to play basketball. He holds the record for the most three-pointers made and games played in the NBA G-League. It wasn’t enough to earn him a good income, and he even had to work a part-time job to make ends meet. He drove an old beat up car with a broken air conditioner to tutor students at their homes. Despite facing such circumstances for 11 years, he never stopped pursuing his dream of making it to the NBA.
On April 9, 2018, Ingram seized the opportunity to join the Los Angeles Lakers and signed a short-term contract with the team. The following day, the 32-year-old Ingram made his NBA debut, scoring 19 points and sinking four three-pointers. Ingram told a New York Times reporter, “Back when I was 25, I wasn't in the NBA, and I felt I had failed.” Indeed, he wasn’t a prodigious player, he lacked exceptional physical attributes and he didn’t come from a privileged family background. Throughout his career, he had to face failures and setbacks, much like many of us in our lives and jobs. However, what is truly moving about Ingram is his ability to recalibrate his direction and hit the road again after each failure.
On the basketball court, the simplest way to avoid making mistakes is to hold onto the ball, do nothing, or pass it to a teammate. This way, you’ll avoid errors, but you’ll never score. The same principle applies to life. No matter how foolish your decisions may be or how reckless your actions are, the biggest mistake is to stand still and do nothing.
In every mistake we make, we have the opportunity to gain strength, the power to overcome fear. Our reluctance to make mistakes stems from the fear of the consequences. In reality, humanity’s deepest fear lies in the fear of the unknown. Conversely, when we take action and make decisions, regardless of the outcome, we naturally will find a clearer direction. It is only then that we can walk forward with greater confidence.
Of course, I believe that any student graduating from NYU Shanghai can understand the significance of mistakes. We are not encouraging everyone to make mistakes, but you need courage to face and overcome them. Graduates, from today onwards, you are about to embark on a new journey. It is a journey filled with unknowns, constant changes, and a mix of disappointments and surprises. On this journey, there are no surefire shortcuts. What matters most is to take each step bravely. When we look back, behind every shining moment, there are countless footprints of trial and error. At this moment, I challenge you. Make a mistake and let it cheer you on. Thank you.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
上纽大毕业生Celia Forster：从多元视角审视教育技术