上海纽约大学常务副校长雷蒙2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
常务副校长 | 雷蒙
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
2024届的同学们：
今天是个值得庆贺的日子。在度过了充满挑战的四年之后，你们即将踏上新的旅程。在你们面前的新世界里，那个曾经困扰我们的疫情已然淡去。
但这并不意味着这个世界就会是风平浪静的。我们可以看到世界上不少地方正在发生战争，还有一些虽然没到战争的程度但也已经很严峻的冲突。这些事情都挑战着人们对未来的希望和乐观。
不过我今天下午要说的是：通过在上海纽约大学四年的学习，你们已经具备了应对上述挑战所需的能力。
大家一定知道《三体》这本书吧。它是中国著名科幻小说家刘慈欣的代表作，畅销全球，且多次被改编成影视作品。去年在国内上线了一部剧集，今年初网飞（Netflix）也上线了一部英文版的。
不过我今天想讲的不是《三体》，而是刘慈欣2020年出版的短篇小说集《撑起天空》中的第七个故事《欢乐颂》。这部短篇集出版的时候，你们刚刚入学上纽大第二个月。
这个故事所描绘的是，在一个虚构的世界里，联合国（小说中称为“全球联盟”）已经无法再履行其促进全人类的利益的使命，相反，它变成了各国相互争斗的舞台。因此，世界各国决定关停联合国。故事发生在举行联合国关停仪式的那天傍晚，200多个成员国的元首云集纽约见证这一历史时刻。
然而在仪式上，令人震撼的一幕发生了。一面巨大的镜子出现并盖住了整个天空，映照着大地。镜子对各国元首说话，并伴随着点点星光奏响了一场音乐会。美妙的音乐让各国元首意识到，在我们地球上看起来巨大的东西，从宇宙深处看不过是微小的斑点。
与会的200多位国家元首都深受感动。他们一起合唱了贝多芬第九交响曲中的《欢乐颂》，唱起了赞颂所有人情同手足的歌词。镜子将他们的歌声传遍了整个宇宙。各国首脑最终决定不解散联合国。
在书的前言中，刘慈欣描述了他的创作动机。他希望带给读者一个宇宙视角，即“全人类作为一个共同体来看待事物，而不是各个国家或种族的简单聚集”。通过科幻小说，作者向我们展示了这种伟大的世界主义的真相。
对于今天即将毕业的你们而言，你们每个人都有能力以自己的方式为实现这个共同体做贡献，就像刘慈欣笔下的镜子为那些国家元首所做的那样，这并不是天方夜谭。
过去一年里，美国商务部长吉娜·雷蒙多 (Gina Raimondo) 和美国国务卿安东尼·布林肯 (Antony Blinken) 分别来到上海纽约大学，和同学们进行交流。他们回去以后均在很多场合提及了他们的访问，提及了他们在和我们上纽大的同学交谈后的感触，谈到了像你们这样让来自不同国家的学生一起学习和生活是多么重要。
你们在上海纽约大学的经历给了你们一个独特的视角。你们上过的课、读过的书，以及最重要的那些来自不同成长环境、和你们朝夕相处四年的同学们，这些经历都会赋予你们特殊的力量。
这就引出了我今天想说的第二点。就是你们不能仅仅满足于自己能做的。曾在2013年在上纽大教GPS（“全球视野下的社会”），后来又获得诺贝尔经济学奖的保罗·罗默（Paul Romer）教授在六年前写了一篇博客，描述了盲目乐观和有条件乐观的区别。盲目乐观认为自己不动手天上也会掉馅饼，而有条件乐观则认为好事的发生都是一个人努力的结果。
那篇博文主要讲的是关于气候变化的话题。罗默教授认为好的公共政策应该要能正向激励人们积极创新，从而获得有益的结果。如果我们把这种有条件乐观的精神推而广之，作为一种普遍的处事态度，则可以调动每个人的主观能动性，激发大家的创新能力，从而又进一步创造更大的社会价值。
正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，科学家们才能不断发现攻克各种疑难杂症的方法。
正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，各国的政治家、外交家们才能求同存异、搁置争议，积极促进国与国之间的合作。
也正是本着有条件的乐观主义态度，才使得人类社会能接受用人工智能来做创造性的工作，并相信我们能摸索并建立一套完善的管理机制来预防这种强大的工具被滥用。
上海纽约大学2024届的同学们，你们即将踏上追求有意义、有价值的人生的新旅程，为这个世界贡献你们的热忱与才华。在此，我代表你们的老师，向你们表达我们的期许：
愿你们善用才华，体会出色完成任务后的成就感。
愿你们事业成功，享受自己的工作给社会带来的更大价值的满足感。
愿你们好运相伴，并常怀谦卑和感恩之心。
愿你们能润物无声地帮助他人。
愿你们时刻保持温良恭俭、关怀包容，不要自以为是、目中无人。
愿你们能坦然面对自己的无知、疑惑、软弱和踌躇。
愿你们身边有知音长伴。
愿你们能成为那面天边的“镜子”，映照出一个更好的世界。
愿你们明白人生不是一帆风顺，要做好应对山重水复的准备，但也要坚信会有柳暗花明的一天。
愿你们走出舒适和熟悉的环境，继续精彩的旅程，去体验丰富多彩的人生。
最后，希望你们常回上海、回浦东、回前滩看看。上纽大永远是你们的家。
祝贺大家！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Members of the Class of 2024.
Today is a day for celebration. After a challenging four years of undergraduate life, you are going out into a world in which the pandemic that was once all we could think about has now faded from view.
To be sure, the world you are entering is not what we would call an easy world. It features wars, and it features conflicts that might not be wars but are nonetheless challenging people’s ability to live with hope and optimism. But my main message this afternoon is this: During your time at NYU Shanghai, you have developed all of the tools you will need to surmount every one of these challenges.
I want to begin by referring you to a work by Liu Cixin, the science fiction writer who has become a truly global phenomenon. Last year, a television version of his novel, The Three Body Problem, was released here in China. Two months ago, a second, English-language television version of the novel, was released on Netflix.
But I am not going to talk about The Three Body Problem. Instead I will talk about To Hold Up The Sky, a collection of ten short stories that Liu Cixin published during your second month as NYU Shanghai students. In particular, I want to talk about the seventh story, entitled "Ode to Joy".
In that story, Liu describes an imaginary evening when the United Nations was going to close down for good. You see, the UN had stopped pursuing its original mission – to advance the interests of all humanity. Instead it had become just another forum where nations struggled with one another. So on this evening, the heads of state of all 200 member countries went to New York to participate in a ceremony marking the end of the UN.
But then, during the ceremony, something amazing happened. A giant Mirror appeared and filled the sky, reflecting the earth. The Mirror spoke to the heads of state and used light from the stars to play a concert. The light-music was beautiful, and it reminded the heads of state how things that look huge to us here on earth are but tiny specks when seen from a distance.
The 200 heads of state were deeply moved. They all joined together to sing the Ode to Joy from Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, which celebrates the moment when all people are brothers and sisters. The Mirror broadcast their song through the entire universe. And the heads of state decided not to end the UN after all.
In the introduction to the book, Liu Cixin describes his motivation. He wants us to adopt the perspective of the universe. From that perspective, we humans form a single “collective unit, rather than an assembly of different parts divided by ethnicity and nation.” Science fiction can help to remind us of this great cosmopolitan truth.
It is not a fantasy to suggest that you, the NYU Shanghai Class of 2024, have the capacity, each in your own individual ways, to be for other people what Liu Cixin’s Mirror was for his heads of state. During this past year the United States Secretary of Commerce, Gina Raimondo, and the United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, each spoke with a group of NYU Shanghai students. And afterwards they each talked about how moved they had been by the conversation, about how important it is for students from different countries to come together in the way that all of you have.
Your NYU Shanghai experience has given you a unique perspective. The classes you took. The books you read. And most importantly the classmates you got to know who had grown up in different cultures from the one you grew up in. That experience has given you special powers.
But this brings me to my second point. You see, you must not be complacent about the good that you can do. Six years ago, Professor Paul Romer, who taught GPS at NYU Shanghai back in 2013 and went on to win the Nobel Prize in Economics, wrote a blog post in which he talked about the difference between complacent optimism (believing that good things will happen even if you don’t do anything) and conditional optimism (believing that if you do the work, then good things can happen).
The blog post was about climate change, and Professor Romer argued that the right kinds of social policies can motivate people to do the work to innovate in ways that are beneficial instead of harmful. But I think his discussion of the power of conditional optimism suggests a useful attitude towards all of life. It reminds us that we have the agency to innovate, and it reinforces the hope that our innovation can be a force for good.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads scientists to keep discovering cures for deadly diseases.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads diplomats to help very different countries to cooperate and benefit together, even when their interests are in some ways competitive with one another.
Conditional optimism is, after all, the attitude that leads societies to believe we will be able to use generative AI as a tool for creativity and innovation, and we will be able to develop the social institutions we need to protect our societies against the harms that could ensue if people abuse such a powerful tool.
Members of the NYU Shanghai Class of 2024, as you embark on lives of worth and purpose, lives of service to a world that desperately needs you, let me conclude by sharing a few hopes that we, your teachers, hold for you:
May you enjoy the special pleasures of craft — the private satisfaction of doing a task as well as it can be done.
May you enjoy the special pleasures of profession — the added satisfaction of knowing that your efforts promote a larger public good.
May you be blessed with good luck, and also with the wisdom to appreciate when you have been lucky rather than skillful.
May you find ways to help others under circumstances where they cannot possibly know that you have done so.
May you be patient, and gentle, and tolerant, without becoming smug, self-satisfied, or arrogant.
May you always be able to confess ignorance, doubt, vulnerability, and uncertainty.
May you build long and loving relationships with people whom you respect.
May you be the Mirrors that can help others to see the world in healthy and constructive new ways.
May you know enough bad weather that you never take sunshine for granted, and enough good weather that your faith in the coming of spring is never shaken.
May you be able to travel frequently beyond the places that are comfortable and familiar, so that your appreciation for the miraculous diversity of life grows ever stronger.
And may your steps lead you often back to Shanghai. Back to Pudong. Back to the New Bund. For you will always be members of the NYU Shanghai family. And we will always be happy to welcome you home.
Congratulations.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
上纽大毕业生王誉翰：探索交互技术与设计未知的可能性