上海纽约大学教务长衛周安2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
教务长 | 衛周安
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
童校长、Mills校长、雷蒙常务副校长、Chesler主席、同事们、尊敬的各位来宾和朋友们，请和我一起祝贺2024届的毕业生们！
各位毕业生，我谨代表上海纽约大学全体成员，对顺利毕业的你们致以最衷心的祝贺！你们圆满完成学业、即将扬帆前行，我们由衷地为你们感到骄傲和自豪。
今年，人工智能比以往任何时候都更加成为我们关注的焦点，同时，人工智能能力的快速发展是否意味着通用人工智能——一种与我们人类同等甚至比我们人类更高级的智能——即将到来，也成为我们关注的焦点。
不过，我今天要谈的是它的另一面：人性问题。是什么定义了我们的人性，使我们作为人类独特而不可复制？一言以蔽之，我认为人性的核心在于持续建立和发挥联系的能力。
那么，什么才是人类最重要的品质，使我们能够建立联系并在此基础上继续前进？其实有很多，但其中最重要的是同理心、创造力、幽默感和道德判断力。
这四种品质的价值你们在过去四年中并不陌生，甚至可能已经完全内化。所有的品质都建立在图灵奖得主、Meta公司首席人工智能科学家Yann LeCun（杨立昆）近期提出的人类深层次技能的基础上。人类深层次技能包括推理能力、规划能力、持久性记忆，以及对理解能力十分重要的感官知觉。我将逐一谈谈这四种品质，即同理心、创造力、幽默感和道德判断力，这也是上海纽约大学学生在校期间培养的多元文化效能的关键组成部分。
第一，同理心。在人工智能时代，技术发展日新月异，无处不在的技术有时会让人产生孤立感，而同理心，即伸出援手，真正理解彼此的经历、观点和感受的能力，则比以往任何时候都更加重要。它使我们能够相互了解，消除隔阂，相互尊重，并在相互理解和共情的基础上建立有意义的情感联系。从真正意义上说，同理心就是联系。
第二，创造力。创造力可能是人类在人工智能时代最独特的品质，它与同理心相辅相成。它根植于建立联系的能力上，始于与和我们不尽相同的他人一起学习和向对方学习的能力。当我们与他人建立联系时——比如说当我们进行真正的对话、参与合作或分享艺术创作时——我们会挖掘出灵感和创新的源泉，这种源泉会促进人类的创造力，以崭新的方式将我们经验中不同的部分结合在一起。
第三，幽默感。幽默提醒我们人类经历中的快乐和荒谬，在欢笑中将我们联系在一起，帮助我们在瞬息万变的世界中找到意义和联系。幽默与同理心和创造力息息相关。幽默源于同理心，也可以成为促进同理心的有力工具，因为它能让我们在情感层面上与他人建立联系。幽默在使用中通常会借鉴与受众产生共鸣的共同经历、情感和文化典故。它还有助于打破隔阂、化解紧张，在人与人之间营造一种友爱和理解的氛围。
以幽默的方式对待世界的能力，在创造力中起着至关重要的作用，而创造力的基础往往是跳出条条框框的思维和建立非传统的联系。此外，幽默还能鼓励我们接受模糊性和不确定性，培养对创造力至关重要的好奇心和探索精神。简而言之，幽默是同理心与创造力之间的桥梁。我敢打赌，你还没有听到过机器的笑声，起码不是自发的！
第四，道德判断力。道德判断力与幽默、创造力和同理心息息相关。幽默具有凝聚人心的力量，但也可能被用来伤害或冒犯他人。要理解幽默的道德含义，就必须有同理心、文化敏感性，并敏锐地意识到我们的言行可能对他人产生的影响。通过在使用幽默时进行道德判断，我们可以架起沟通的桥梁而不是设置障碍，并促进不同社区之间的联系和归属感。
道德判断能力的微调可以帮助我们把握幽默的微妙界限。伦理判断力可以指导我们的创造力，激励我们设计出既有效又富有想象力的伦理解决方案，以灵活性、适应性和独创性应对复杂的伦理问题。伦理判断力还能帮助我们将幽默与同理心联系在一起，因为当幽默缺乏同理心时，它就不好笑，甚至会造成伤害。
我刚才所说的这些可能显得有些抽象和哲学性，所以现在我想请大家留意一部著名小说的开篇，它在许多方面概括了这四种品质。这部小说是一百年前美国的小说，斯科特·菲茨杰拉德（Scott Fitzgerald）的《了不起的盖茨比》。
几周前，当一群上海纽约大学的学生表演自己根据2024年的上海创造性地改编的版本时，这本小说的永恒性和普世的人性特质得到了令人难忘的展示。《了不起的盖茨比》的著名开场白道出了一切：“早年我少不更事的时候，父亲给我的一个忠告，至今我一直未曾置诸脑后。‘无论何时，’他对我说，‘你想要批评别人，就得记着，并非世上所有人都具备你拥有的优越条件。’ ”
现在，我非常怀疑斯科特·菲茨杰拉德在写作《了不起的盖茨比》时脑海中是否有孔子的影子。如果有的话，他可能会想到孔子在《论语》开篇第一句话中的深刻见解："学而时习之，不亦说乎？"
今天，当愤怒泛滥成灾时——无论是真实的还是人为制造的；当我们面临前所未有的威胁时——无论是以社会恶意为表现形式的世俗威胁，还是以气候变化为表现形式的宇宙威胁，我希望你们能始终牢记什么是人性，希望你们能不断实践和培养同理心、创造力、幽默感和道德判断力这四种紧密交织的人性品质。
我衷心希望，在实现你们的人性和你们所学到的一切的过程中，你们将彼此紧密联系，与上海纽约大学紧密联系，并以新的方式紧密联系。这样，无论你们身处何地，你们都将为周围的世界带来美好而积极的变化。
去爱吧，去创造吧，去欢笑吧，去道德地行动吧，最重要的是，去建立联结吧！
2024届的同学们，再次祝贺你们！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Chancellor Tong! President Mills! Vice-Chancellor Lehman! Chairman Chesler! Colleagues! Distinguished Guests! And Friends! Salute with me our great students of the Class of 2024! Dear students, on behalf of the whole NYU Shanghai community, from the bottom of my heart I offer you warm congratulations upon your graduation. We are really, really proud of you for getting to this glorious moment.
This year more than ever, AI has occupied the center of our attention, along with the question of whether its rapidly advancing capabilities mean that artificial general intelligence, an intelligence equivalent to or even greater than our own, is now just around the corner. But what I want to talk about today is the flipside of that: the question of humanity. What defines our humanity and makes us distinctive and unreplicable as human beings? In a nutshell, I believe that at the heart of our humanity lies the capacity continuously to forge and to build on connection.
What then are the quintessentially human qualities that above all allow us to forge connection and build on it? There are in fact quite a few candidates, but the most important of all are empathy, creativity, humor, and ethical judgment—four qualities whose values you will certainly have glimpsed and perhaps even have completely internalized during the past four years. Each rests on the foundation of what Yann LeCun, the Turing-award-winning NYU professor who is also chief AI scientist at Meta, recently identified as the deeply human skills of reasoning, planning, persistent memory, and sensory perception as a path to understanding. I will say something about each one of these four qualities of empathy, creativity, humor, and ethical judgment, which of course also are key components of the multicultural effectiveness that NYU Shanghai students develop over their time here.
Empathy tops the list. In the age of AI, with its rapid technological advances, when the ubiquity of technology can sometimes foster a sense of isolation, empathy, the ability to reach out and genuinely to understand one another’s experiences, perspectives, and feelings, is more important than ever. It allows us to learn about one another, to bridge the gaps that separate us, to respect one another, and to forge meaningful emotional connections based on mutual understanding and compassion. Empathy is, in a very real sense, all about connection.
Creativity, the second quality, may be THE distinctive characteristic of humans in the age of AI, and it goes hand in hand with empathy. It is founded, precisely, on the ability to forge connections, starting with the ability to learn with and from others who may be different from us. When we connect with others—when we engage in genuine dialogue, collaborate on projects, or share our artistic endeavors—we tap into a wellspring of inspiration and innovation that fosters our creative human ability to bring together disparate parts of our experience in new ways.
Humor is the third on my list of quintessentially human qualities. Humor reminds us of the joy and absurdity of the human experience, connecting us in laughter and helping us to find meaning and connection in a rapidly changing world. Humor is linked to both empathy and creativity. Humor both derives from empathy and can be a powerful tool for fostering empathy precisely because it allows us to connect with others on an emotional level. The use of humor often draws upon shared experiences, emotions, and cultural references that resonate with our audience; it also can help break down barriers and defuse tension, creating a sense of camaraderie and understanding between individuals.
The ability to approach the world with humor plays an essential role in creativity, whose very foundation often involves thinking outside the box and making unconventional connections. Furthermore, humor encourages us to embrace both ambiguity and uncertainty, fostering the spirit of curiosity and exploration that is essential to creativity. It serves, in short, as a bridge between empathy and creativity. And I’d be willing to bet you have not yet heard a machine laugh, at least not spontaneously!
My fourth quintessential human quality is ethical judgment. Ethical judgment is linked to humor, creativity, and empathy. Humor has the power to bring people together, but it can also be used to harm or offend. Understanding the ethical implications of humor requires empathy, cultural sensitivity, and a keen awareness of the impact our words and actions can have on others. By exercising ethical judgment in our use of humor, we can build bridges rather than barriers, fostering a sense of connection and belonging across diverse communities. A fine tuned capacity for ethical judgment can help us navigate the delicate line that humor can walk. Ethical judgment can guide our creativity, inspiring us to devise ethical solutions that are both effective and imaginative, responding to complex ethical issues with flexibility, adaptability, and ingenuity. And ethical judgment can help us to pull together the threads that draw together humor and empathy, for when humor is devoid of empathy it is, well, not funny, and can even be hurtful.
Now this may all seem rather abstract and philosophical, so I would like to call to your attention the opening lines of a famous novel, lines that in many ways encapsulate all these four qualities. The novel is an American novel written a century ago, F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby, but its timelessness and universally human qualities were memorably on display just a couple of weeks ago when a group of NYU Shanghai students performed a version that they had creatively adapted to Shanghai in 2024. The famous opening lines of “Gatsby” say it all: “In my younger and more vulnerable days my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since. ‘Whenever you feel like criticizing any one,’ he told me, ‘just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.’”
Now I very much doubt that Scott Fitzgerald had Confucius in the back of his mind when he wrote The Great Gatsby, but if he had, he might have been thinking about Confucius’ very profound observation in the opening line of the Analects,Lunyu, that “To Learn and Constantly Put it into Practice, is it not a Pleasure?”
Today, when anger, both real and manufactured, abounds; when we face unprecedented threats, both earthly, in the form of social malevolence and cosmic, in the form of climate change, I hope you will always remember what it means to be human, that you will constantly put into practice and cultivate those four tightly interwoven human qualities of empathy, creativity, humor and ethical judgment. I sincerely hope that in the realization of your humanity and of everything you have learned you will stay tightly connected to one another, to NYU Shanghai, and in new ways yet to be imagined. That is how you are going to make a wonderful, positive difference in the world around you, wherever you may find yourselves. Go forth and love, go forth and be creative, go forth and laugh, go forth and act ethically, and above all go forth and connect!
Congratulations, Class of 2024!
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
上纽大毕业生Mia Trinh：从越南到中国，四年大学之旅我将永远珍藏