上纽大国际学生代表Christine Yosephin Wijaya 2024届本科生毕业典礼发言

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼发言
国际学生代表 | Christine Yosephin Wijaya
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
尊敬的童校长、雷蒙校长、衛周安教务长、Mills校长，尊敬的来宾，敬爱的教职员工，亲爱的家人和朋友们，以及2024届的各位同学们，欢迎各位的到来！
为什么选择上海纽约大学？一个简单的问句，却贯穿了我的整个大学生涯。为什么不是纽约大学阿布扎比校园？为什么不是纽约校园？为什么要来上海？
我第一次清晰获得这个问题的答案，是在2021年10月27日。那时我20岁，被诊断出患有癌症。收到诊断结果时，我感到很害怕，又觉得老天似乎跟我开了一个玩笑，让与家人密友远隔千里的我，孤身一人在面对疫情的同时接受这个噩耗。
我记得，当时自己还在为如何完成本学期的课程、如何顺利熬到毕业而焦虑不安。朋友们一直在我身边支持我，他们来医院探望，陪伴我度过了痛苦的困难时刻。被推出手术室的那一刻，我环顾四周，看到耐心等在手术室外的朋友们，我立刻意识到，这里就是我一直在寻找的我心所属之地。
这样的经历和故事令上海纽约大学独具特色，学校倡导的相互尊重和关爱，使我们许多人成长为坚韧的个体。这个世界充满不确定性，我们踏上的这段旅程，前路看起来也许困难重重。
身为国际学生，我当时不会说中文，落地机场时还要用酒精消毒。我们具有冒险精神，勇敢地踏上了未知的旅途，来到陌生的国度。我们在疫情期间相互支持，还找到了建立联结的方法，让大家从线上互动的虚拟世界中抽离，在那里我们依然能体验到大学生活的快乐。这无一不在体现我们的韧性和适应能力，也证明了上海纽约大学在任何情况下都在为学生提供个性化发展的帮助和支持。
当我们站在人生的新起点上，回顾过去固然重要，思考前方机遇更是必不可少。无论是找到新工作还是继续深造，我们都会面临各种挑战，我希望我们能记得拥抱艰难和困苦。
我们在上海纽约大学的旅程与众不同。其间，我们塑造了坚韧的品格、提升了适应变化的能力、拥有了自我成长的坚定信念。这些品质贯穿于我们四年时光的点点滴滴。
比如，像我一样主修世界史（社会科学）的同学们，会在图书馆里疯狂赶写毕业论文，争取在截止日期前一天做出更多成果，在找工作、实习和申研的同时，兼顾学业，未曾懈怠。
我们从一开始就彼此相伴，在屏幕两端相互支持，度过了挑战与困境并存的大一学年。我还记得，我当时几乎每个小时都在和不同人通话，因为我们需要适应不同时区，日夜颠倒。在这个过程中，我们彼此鼓励，互帮互助，更好地适应了这种线上线下的混合授课和学习模式。
我们在上海纽约大学的时光不仅仅是帮助我们应对外部世界的挑战，还赋予我们多样化的技能和视角，让我们走好未来的每一步。我们学会了适应，在过去几年里，懂得将挑战转化为解决方案，并知道怎样支持彼此，才能使每个人在各自的道路上前进。
从跨越文化差异到跨越国界合作，我们磨砺了在互联互通的全球体系中蓬勃发展的能力。对我们许多人来说，这意味着我们需要有效地处理语言不通的问题，学会尊重他人与我们的差异，探索我们的文化和自我。我们学会了在世界上最大的城市之一——上海独立生活。所有这些，都已为我们的未来做好了准备。
让我们带着在上海纽约大学得到的谆谆教诲和美好回忆启程，让我们永远不要忘记连接彼此的纽带——一个和而不同、美美与共、潜能无限的大家庭。当我们踏入社会时，愿我们继续展现美好品质，充分利用在校所学、抓住每个机会，回馈社会。
当我们站在这里的时候，我希望你们也问问自己——为什么选择上海纽约大学？在这里，我培养了坚韧的品质，在学术领域有所建树，对世界有了进一步了解。学校给了我非常大的支持和关怀。在此，我也希望在座的各位能思考这个问题，因为作答时，你们可能不仅会找到自己身处此地的原因，还能发现你们选择上纽大的深层意义。
祝贺2024届的毕业生们！无论是在上海，还是未来在世界的任何一个角落，让我们继续关于选择和人生的追问。谢谢！
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Chancellor Tong, Vice Chancellor Lehman, Provost Waley-Cohen, President Mills, distinguished guests, esteemed faculty and staff, family and friends, and dearest members of the Class of 2024, welcome!
"Why Shanghai?" This question, a two worded question, followed me throughout my entire college career. Why not Abu Dhabi? Why not New York? Why Shanghai?
My first answer to the question "Why Shanghai?" became clear on October 27th, 2021. At 20 years old, I was diagnosed with cancer. It was terrifying (but also funny) to receive this diagnosis in the middle of a worldwide pandemic while being thousands of miles away from my family and closest friends. I recall the struggle of trying to figure out how to complete the semester, let alone the rest of college. But my friends were there for me - coming for hospital visits and accompanying me in moments of pain and difficulty. As I looked around my hospital room at my friends, waiting patiently for me to come out of surgery, it didn’t take long for me to realize that I was exactly where I needed to be.
Such experiences are characteristic of NYU Shanghai, where many of us have grown as resilient individuals in a community marked by respect and care for each other. In a world fraught with uncertainty, the decision to embark on this journey may have seemed daunting. But we ventured into the unknown, showing a spirit of adventure as we entered a country without knowing much Chinese, to be greeted by people in white hazmat suits at the airport spraying all kinds of antiseptic solutions on us. Even as we navigated through strenuous restrictions and lockdowns, we supported one another. We found ways to build a community, a sanctuary where we still experienced the joys of a college experience, free from the confines of screens and virtual interactions. It is a testament to our resilience and adaptability, a testament to the unwavering commitment of this remarkable institution to help us thrive.
As we stand on the threshold of new beginnings, it's essential to reflect not only on the past but also on the opportunities that lie ahead. As we continue on in life, there are bound to be all sorts of challenges in finding new jobs and getting into prestigious graduate programs, but I hope that we will remember to embrace the struggle.  Our journey at NYU Shanghai has been unlike any other, marked by resilience, adaptability, and a steadfast commitment to growth. I see that in the small moments - for instance, two weeks ago, Social Science majors like myself work on capstone relentlessly in the library, seeking to make much out of the 24 hours before a deadline.
Even more than that, we have been there for one another since the first day, supporting one another through screens as we enter the first year of college with our different struggles and challenges. I recall being on call with my friends every hour, helping and encouraging each other when taking classes at weird times of the day and night, and of course coping so well with hybrid learning.
Our time at NYU Shanghai has offered more than just a reprieve from the challenges of the outside world. It has equipped us with diverse skills and perspectives that will serve us well in the future. We have learned to be adaptable, reframing the challenges we faced over the previous years into feasible solutions and learning how to lean in and support one another in our different journeys. From navigating cultural nuances to collaborating across borders, we have honed our abilities to thrive in an interconnected global landscape. For many of us, this has meant dealing productively with language barriers, learning to overcome differences we see in others, and navigating our cultural and personal identities. We have learned to be independent, navigating life in one of the biggest cities in the world. Let us carry with us the lessons learned and the memories cherished during our time at NYU Shanghai. And let us never forget the bonds that unite us—a community forged in the crucible of shared experiences and boundless possibilities. As we step into the world, may we continue to embody the values we learned. May we strive to be responsible stewards of the knowledge and opportunities bestowed upon us.
As we stand here today, I encourage all of you to ask yourself the same question: 'Why Shanghai?' Shanghai has trained me to grow in resilience and has placed me on great footing within the realm of academia and in the world. It has introduced me to this community's great system of support and care. I encourage us all to reflect on this question as well. For in answering this question, you may discover not only the reasons behind your physical presence in this vibrant city but also the deeper meaning of your time at NYU Shanghai.
Congratulations, Class of 2024. Let us continue to ask ourselves why—not just in Shanghai, but in every corner of the world where our paths may lead. Thank you.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！
姚明上海纽约大学毕业典礼致辞：闪光背后是铺满试错脚印的勇气之路
纽约大学校长Linda G. Mills上纽大2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
纽约大学董事会主席Evan Chesler上纽大2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞