上海纽约大学校长童世骏2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞

△点击观看现场视频
上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业典礼致辞
校长 | 童世骏
致辞以英文进行，以下为中文译文和英文原文
尊敬的各位来宾，亲爱的同事们，同学们以及家长们：
请允许我向2024届所有的毕业生表达最热烈的祝贺，祝贺你们作为上海纽约大学的本科生圆满结束了四年的学习生涯。同时，我也要向所有为学生们付出爱心、关怀和努力的人们，表达衷心的感谢！
不到两周后，我任职上海纽约大学校长，就要满四周年了。所以，请允许我接下来把毕业典礼致辞，这个对于校长来说的一年一次的活动，冒昧地变成四年一次的活动；我想以此感谢你们，在过去四年里，我从你们那里也学了不少。
我从你们身上学到很多，首先是因为你们学习经历的丰富程度，尤其就你们的学习场所而言，在世界高等教育的历史上是独一无二的。
和其他大学生一样，你们不仅在校园内学习，而且在校园外学习；和纽约大学的其他学生一样，你们不仅在自己的主校园学习，还到其他地方的校园去学习；和其他上纽大学生一样，你们不仅在上海学习，也在中国其他地方学习。
但和所有其他学生不同的是，你们不仅在真实空间学习，而且在虚拟空间学习；你们不仅在共享空间学习，而且在隔离空间学习；你们不仅在专为学习而设计的空间学习，而且在专为睡觉而设计的空间学习；你们不仅在世纪大道校园学习，而且在从前称作三林塘的这个前滩校园学习。我深感荣幸，几乎在以上所有地方，我都曾与你们共同学习。
我尤其高兴的是，你们以各种方式让我知道，你们不仅在上海各处，而且还在世界各地，度过快乐时光。
我得承认，我真的有点嫉妒你们——不是因为你们参观了我未能前往的博物馆，品尝了我未能尝到的美食，参与了我未能参加的活动，结交了我未能结识的朋友，而是因为你们能够用这么多富有想象力和创造性的方式，将这些“点”连成一条“线”，一条通往你们个人发展下一个阶段的线。
我也得承认，有时候，看到你们因为无法兼顾那些美好选项而纠结烦恼，我的快乐是带着一点点坏笑的。
当然，我更想知道的，是你们如何看待在上海纽约大学的那些学习机会，以及你们为何特别喜欢其中的一些课程。我特别高兴的，是你们说之所以喜欢某些课，并不是因为可以得高分，也并不是因为本来有的兴趣得到了满足，而是因为觉得这些课程既经典又酷炫，因为对你们心目中优秀学府的形象来说，这些课程既是那么匹配，又甚至有所超越。
我也想特别感谢你们常常让我把教的过程变成学的过程——让我在教课程、开讲座、参加“校长下午茶”或发表像这样的演讲之中或之后，学到许多。感谢你们对我的一些立场和论证拒绝轻易同意，或拒绝假装同意，这些立场和论证往往是我自己后来也会觉得不够清晰、不大站得住脚的。
我也要顺便感谢你们提供了最重要的数据来支持我的这个观点：正因为人类会发问、会提出有意义的问题，与人工智能相比，人类智能是具有永恒的优越性的。
我可以从你们那里有所学习的机会还有许多，但我现在不想一一例举这些机会，而只想再用一个例子强调这一点：在让我知道当做什么、不当做什么方面，你们的作用是独一无二的。
在几个月以前，碰上好天气，在去学校的路上，我曾喜欢在苏州河畔美丽步道上骑十分钟单车。但从某一天开始，我骑车绕开行人步道了，因为我突然意识到，如果面对我的四岁外孙，我会无法解释，外公为何要在只供行人走路的步道上骑车车。
亲爱的同学们，你们对我的引导作用，也是与此类似的：面对你们，我常常要想想，该怎么解释我为什么做这个选择，而不是那个选择。
亲爱的2024届毕业生们，你们可能已经猜到了，以上关于我自己所说的话，其实是为对你们说临别寄语做铺垫。
是的，下面就是我衷心地希望你们记住的话：从今天起，你们将成为学弟学妹们模仿或追随的对象；从今天起，你们将经常被未曾参加过这样的毕业典礼的人们问及，为什么你要这样做，而不是那样做。在我看来，从今天起，能否一直在自己的人生旅程中对这样的问题做出解答，将是你们未来要参加的最重要的“比赛”。
最近我去了纽约，在我爱逛的思存书店（Strand Bookstore）里看到一本书，它将哈佛和耶鲁两校间一年一度的橄榄球比赛描述为“唯一重要的比赛”。那本书很有意思，但我最后还是没有买，因为对“唯一最重要的比赛”，我有自己的理解：这种比赛之取胜，“当且仅当”这样的时刻，即我们能冷静、坦然地、而且自信地向那些视我们为榜样的人解释自己那些有道德蕴含之选择的时刻。
既然说到“比赛”，我想就用这个比喻来结束演讲：亲爱的每一位2024届毕业生，我希望你们在今年的毕业典礼中，都会受到一位独特嘉宾的独特启发，这位嘉宾之所以备受赞誉和推崇，不仅仅是因为他在那些奇妙比赛中的杰出表现，也常常因为他在那些比赛之后的睿智言谈。
尽管现在难以想象，有朝一日，当你们在我刚刚说的那场“唯一重要的比赛”中取得胜利后，面对向你们欢呼庆功的观众，你们的讲演中会有哪些连珠妙语。但是我作为与你们几乎同时成为纽约大学一员的人，我知道我对你们有怎样的希望，那就是：在被问到是怎么赢得这场“唯一重要的比赛”的时候，我希望你们都能回答说：“我之所以打赢那场比赛，是因为我曾经是一支叫做‘上海纽约大学’的球队的成员。”
谢谢大家。
上下滑动阅览英文原文
Distinguished guests, dear colleagues, dear students, and their loved ones,
Please allow me to express my warmest congratulations to all the students of the class of 2024 for the happy conclusion of your four years as NYU Shanghai undergraduate students, and my heartfelt thanks to everyone who has devoted love, care, and endless efforts to our students!
In less than two weeks, I will have been the Chancellor of NYU Shanghai for four years. So please allow me to take the liberty to turn this occasion, this once-a-year occasion for a university chancellor, into a once-every-four-year opportunity, in order to express my gratitude to you for what I have hopefully learned from you over the past four years.
I learned a lot from you because you are likely a cohort of students who have had the richest learning experiences, particularly in terms of the locations of learning, in the world history of higher education.
Like other college students, you did your learning both on campus and off campus; like other NYU students, you did your learning both on your home campus and on other campuses; like other NYU Shanghai students, you did your learning both in Shanghai and in other parts of the country. Unlike any other students in the past four years, however, you did your learning in spaces that are not only real but also virtual, not only shared but also isolated, not only designed for studying but also designed for sleeping, and not only at Century Avenue but also at Qiantan, a region previously called 三林塘. I’m very happy to have had the privilege of being together with you in almost all these spaces, and I thank you very much for this, indeed.
I am particularly happy to have learned a lot from you when you showed in various ways your happy times not only in other parts of the city, but also in other parts of the world. I must confess that I’m a little jealous of you, not because of the museums you visited, the foods you enjoyed, the events you participated in, and the friends you met in so many countries and cities that I have not been able to visit, but because of your ability to connect these “dots” into a “line” that leads to the next stage of your personal development in so many imaginative and creative ways. I should also confess that sometimes I enjoyed seeing you torn between those wonderful options that you know you cannot take all at the same time.
Of course I was keener to know how you see the learning opportunities here at NYU Shanghai and why you particularly appreciate some of the courses you attended; I was particularly happy when you told me that you appreciated these courses not because there you could get higher scores, nor because there your prior interests were met more sufficiently, but because you found these courses so cool and so classic at the same time, and you thought they both matched and transcended the image of a good university in your mind.
I would like to express a special kind of gratitude to you for what I learnt when or after I taught a course, gave a talk, joined an afternoon tea, or made a speech like this one. Thank you very much for refusing to agree or to pretend to agree with those positions or arguments of mine that I myself may come to see as too ambiguous or too weak later on.
I thank you very much, by the way, also for providing important data supporting my argument for the permanent human superiority vis-à-vis AI: the human interest in prompting relevant questions.
There are a lot more opportunities I have or could have learnt from you, but I am not going to list all these opportunities now. I want to emphasize the special role you play in telling me what I should do and what I should not by citing only one more example. Several months ago, on my way to school every morning I used to spend 10 minutes biking on a beautiful pedestrian path along the Suchow Creek during fine days. But one day I stopped doing that, and took another route to bike instead, for suddenly I realized that I would have difficulties explaining to my grandson of 4 why grandpa biked on a path that is exclusively for walking.
In a similar way, my dear students, you play a special role in guiding me: I often need to think how to explain to you why I chose to do this instead of that.
What I said above about myself, as you may guess, is to prepare for what I would like to advise you today, my dear students of 2024. Yes, this is what I would like to say to you most sincerely at this moment: please keep in mind that from today on you will be seen by all undergraduate college students and those younger as someone to be imitated or followed; from today on, that is to say, you will often need to explain to anybody who has not yet attended a commencement ceremony like this why you do this but not that. Whether you will be able to give your explanations all the way along your life from now on is, in my view, the most important game you will play in the future. The annual football competition, or the annual “American football” competition, between Harvard and Yale, is described to be “the only game that matters” by a book I happened to see recently in my favorite place to visit in New York, the Strand Bookstore. This is an interesting book but I did not buy it, because in my mind, the game in which we win if and only if we can give our explanations about our morally significant choices to those who look to us for examples calmly, comfortably and confidently, is rather the only game that matters.
With the metaphor of “game,” I would like now to conclude my speech by wishing all of you, my dear students of 2024, to be inspired by the person who will give this year’s NYU Shanghai Commencement Guest Speech today, the person who is respected and admired not only for what he did during those incredible matches, but very often also for what he said after these matches. It’s impossible to imagine at present what you guys will most charmingly say in the future before the audience applauding your victories in “the only game that matters” that I just mentioned; but I, as a person who became an NYU community member almost at the same time as you did, would hope that you, when asked how you have managed to win that game, could all say this: I did this because I was once a player of a team called NYU Shanghai.
Thank you very much for your attention.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
姚明上海纽约大学毕业典礼致辞：闪光背后是铺满试错脚印的勇气之路
击鼓催征，共赴前程，上海纽约大学2024届本科生毕业快乐！