致2025届毕业生：上海纽约大学校长与教务长的人生赠言

上海纽约大学2025届本科生毕业典礼致辞
以下为致辞中英文对照
校长 童世骏
生活就像环湖骑行，
只有不断前行，才能体会“圆满”
“
?上下滑动浏览文字
尊敬的来宾们，亲爱的同学们，亲爱的家长们，同事们，朋友们：
首先让我作为校长，作为上纽大共同体的成员和代表，向2025届的同学们表示衷心的祝贺，祝贺大家经过四年学习，即将毕业，开始你们人生旅程的新的阶段。
今年是我们第一次在自己的校园里举行毕业典礼；也就是说，你们将作为第一批在参加入学典礼的地方参加毕业典礼的本科生，而载入上海纽约大学的历史，为此我也要向你们表示祝贺。
在参加入学典礼的地方参加毕业典礼，有点类似于不久前我在上海市与苏州市交界处的元荡湖周围骑行时的感觉，向着终点一直往前，同时也是朝着起点逐步回归，最后以“圆满”的方式结束一次骑行。
严格地说来，人生“圆满”无法企及，我们最多只能把它当作心向往之的理想。但这并不妨碍我们在自己人生旅程中捕捉这样一些时刻细细品味，在这些时刻当中，人生轨迹中原本离散的两点却好像重合了。这种“重合”并不是单调的重复，也不是简单的回归，而仿佛是站在老位置看到了新景观，或者在新高度认识了旧场面——正因为如此，人生的这些时刻才会让人欣喜，或者令人感慨。
这种“重合”可以是时间上的：我们之所以庆祝个人和群体的生日，就是为了在每年或每十年、每百年的同一个日子，对个体或群体的生命获得更深的体验。
这种“重合”也可以是空间上的：通过重游故地让现在的自己与过去的自己在同一个地点重逢，通过走访古迹来想象自己与从前世代的人们在同一个地点相会。
有时候，人生轨迹中原本离散的两点的重合可以既是时间上的，也是空间上的。今年恰好是我去崇明农场务农50周年；两个月前，我专门去了一趟崇明岛。当我在我曾经作为水稻田管理员走过无数次的沟渠旁、田埂上行走时，真是感慨万千。
今天是祝贺你们顺利完成四年学业的日子；在这样的日子，我本不应该多讲自己。但是，既然我作为校长在这样的场合总要说几句，我应该尽可能说自己的由衷之言；我想在我个人经历的基础上，跟同学们分享一些想法。
我想分享的第一个想法，是任何时刻，都要不停脚步，都要努力前行。不少人可能都知道爱因斯坦的一句名言：“生活就像骑自行车，只有不断前行，才能保持平衡。”作为骑行爱好者，我不仅认同爱因斯坦的这句话，而且想再做一个发挥：生活就像环湖骑车，只有不断前行，才对圆满有所体会。
不断前行是“体会圆满”的必要条件，但“圆满”本身要有可能，前提是有一个原点是值得人们去努力与之重合的。其实，人生的每一时刻，都是可能成为此后人生旅程的宝贵原点；所以，我想与大家分享的第二个想法的是：在任何时刻，都要努力使今天，使此刻，成为今后值得与之“重合”的那个，那个会在此后人生中不断召唤前行的人生站点。
但我们也不要把人生道路上的一个个站点看得太神秘了。过于刻意地寻求不虚度自己人生的每个瞬间，往往会让本身也是目的的那些瞬间，蜕变成了只是一个个手段。所以，我想与同学们分享的第三个想法是：努力创造值得与之重合的那个原点，这件事情当然是做得越早越好，但它一定不会是因为太迟而不必再做的：我们每天每时的点点努力，都会重新定义我们过往的步步足迹。
当然，努力固然重要，但努力不是万能的；如果只要努力，“圆满”就接踵而来，那“圆满”也就太不珍贵了。让我在五十年前走过的田埂上感慨的，更多的是我在这半个世纪中遭遇的偶然和幸运。因此，我想与大家分享的第四个想法是：对人生遭遇的偶然性，我们当然不要看得分量太重，不要让自己在偶然遭遇面前听任摆布，但也不要把它看得分量太轻，不要让我们把一切成败得失的责任都归在自己名下。人生道路上不会都是春和日丽、顺风顺水；我们要做的，是珍惜机会，享受学习，尽可能让稍纵即逝的机会沉淀为人生的恒久财富，让可能遭遇的负面经历转变成为学习过程的正面收获。
讲到“可能遭遇的负面经历”，我又想引用我特别喜欢的那句挪威谚语：“没有不好的天气，只有不好的衣裳。”同学们，你们在上纽大校园的这四年当中，你们的老师们，跟你们的亲人们一起，跟学校背后的社会各方一起，努力为你们的人生旅程准备厚实的人生行装。但是，我和我的同事们为你们所做的工作到今天结束了；从今天以后，我希望我们能看到你们已经在这所学校里学会了如何为自己添衣换装。我更希望的是，你们走出这个校园以后，你们不仅有能力为自己遮风挡雨，而且有勇气有智慧为公众改善气候。我最最希望的是，今后我们每次相见，尤其在你们的毕业纪念日，或者在学校的校庆纪念日的每次相见，都能看到你们比现在还更强壮、更快乐。
谢谢大家！
?上下滑动浏览文字
Distinguished guests, dear colleagues, dear students, and their loved ones,
As Chancellor and a proud representative of the NYU Shanghai community, let me begin by extending my heartfelt congratulations to the Class of 2025. Today marks the culmination of four years of dedication and growth, and the beginning of an exciting new chapter in your life’s journey.
This year, for the first time, we are holding commencement on our own campus. You are the first undergraduate cohort in NYU Shanghai’s history to graduate in the very place where you began your journey at Orientation. For that, I offer you my sincere congratulations as well.
Taking part in a commencement in the very place where your academic journey began reminds me of a recent experience I had cycling around Yuan Dang Lake, on the border of Shanghai and Suzhou. As I approached the end of the ride, I found myself gradually circling back to where I started—completing the journey not just with a sense of closure, but also with a quiet sense of ‘fulfillment.’
Strictly speaking, the idea of life’s ‘fulfillment’ may forever remain an ideal, something we strive toward but never fully attain. Yet this does not diminish the value of the moments along the way when the path of our journey briefly folds back upon itself, and two seemingly distant points converge.
These moments are neither mere repetitions nor simple returns. They are, rather, instances of deep reflection—like seeing a familiar place with new eyes, or recognizing the past from a higher vantage point. It is precisely for this reason that these moments in life tend to bring us joy or move us deeply.
This ‘overlap’ can be temporal. Consider how we mark ‘birthdays’—whether personal, collective, or even historical. We return to the same date each year, each decade, or each century, not to relive the past, but to deepen our experience of it.
This ‘overlap’ can also be spatial. By revisiting familiar places, the present self meets the past self in the same location. By visiting historical relics, we imagine ourselves meeting people from previous generations who once stood where we now stand.
Sometimes, the reunion of two otherwise distant points along life’s path can be both temporal and spatial. This year marks the 50th anniversary of my time spent working at a farm in nearby Chongming Island. Just two months ago, I made a journey back there. As I walked along the same ditches and ridges I had once traversed countless times as a young rice field manager, I was deeply moved.
Today is a day to celebrate your successful completion of four years of study. On such an occasion, I should have spoken less about myself. Yet as Chancellor, I feel a responsibility—and a privilege—to share a few heartfelt reflections. And so, if you’ll allow me, I would like to offer four thoughts drawn from my own experiences, in the hope that they may resonate with you.
The first idea I wish to share is the importance of always striving forward, no matter the circumstances. Many of you are likely familiar with Albert Einstein’s famous words: ‘Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving.’ As a cyclist myself, I not only agree with Einstein’s insight but would like to add a personal reflection: life is like cycling around a lake. Only by continuing forward can we truly appreciate the sense of fulfillment.
Moving forward is essential to experiencing a sense of ‘fulfillment.’ However, true fulfillment is only possible when there is a meaningful point of origin—something worthy of our efforts to return to and reflect upon. In fact, every moment in life has the potential to become such a point of origin for the journey that follows.
The second idea I wish to share with you today is that at every moment, strive to make today—this very moment—a place worth ‘overlapping’ in the future; a milestone in your life that will continue to inspire and propel you forward as you move ahead.
But let us not mystify every single stop along life’s journey. Being obsessed with never wasting a moment can transform those very moments—each valuable in its own right—into a mere means to an end.
The third idea I wish to share with you is that the effort to create a meaningful point of origin—one worthy of future reunion—is certainly best begun early, but it is never too late to begin and to begin again. The small efforts we make each day, each hour, continually reshape the path we have already traveled, redefining the footprints we leave behind.
Of course, effort is important—but effort alone is not everything. If ‘fulfillment’ came simply from trying hard, then it would be too easily won. What moved me most as I walked once again along the ridges I had traversed fifty years ago was not only my efforts but also the chance and fortune I encountered along the way.
Therefore, the fourth idea I want to share with you is that when it comes to life’s encounters with chance, we should neither place too heavy a burden on them—allowing ourselves to be at chance’s mercy—nor dismiss their significance entirely, attributing all success or failure solely to our own effort. Life’s journey will not always be filled with serenity and sunshine. What we must do is cherish chances, enjoy learning, and transform fleeting moments of chance into lasting personal growth. In doing so, even negative experiences will become part of a positive and meaningful harvest.
Speaking of the challenges and setbacks you may encounter ahead, I’m reminded of a Norwegian proverb I love: ‘There’s no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing.’ Over the past four years at NYU Shanghai, your professors—together with your families, and with support from across the community—have endeavored to fully prepare you for the journey of life, equipping you with the warm, resilient clothing that will help you in whatever weather lies ahead. But today, our work comes to an end. From this day forward, I hope you’ve learned how to clothe yourselves for the road ahead—how to adapt, to persevere, to grow. More importantly, I hope that when you leave this campus, you not only have the strength to shield yourselves from the storm but also the wisdom and courage to help make the climate better for the general public.
And what I hope most of all is this: that every time we meet again—especially on your graduation anniversary or on NYU Shanghai’s birthday—I will find you even stronger, even happier than you are today.
Thank you all!
常务副校长 雷蒙
如何编织当下的故事，
书写真实的自己，成就丰盈的人生
“
?上下滑动浏览文字
2025届毕业生们大家好！
作家埃尔南·迪亚斯（Hernán Díaz）是一位世界公民。他人生最初的25年辗转于瑞典、阿根廷与伦敦。1999年，他来到纽约，在纽约大学攻读博士学位，如今，他定居布鲁克林。
在2022年春天，也就是你们在上纽大的第二个学期，迪亚斯出版了他的第二部小说《信任》（Trust）。在2023年春天，也就是你们在这里的第四个学期，这部作品荣获“普利策小说奖”。
这部小说讲述了一对虚构的百年前夫妇——安德鲁·贝维尔与米尔德丽德·贝维尔（Andrew and Mildred Beve）的故事。它的独特之处在于，以四种截然不同的方式讲述了这对夫妇的人生。
首先，是通过哈罗德·范纳（Harold Vanner）的笔触——他是个作家，写了本颇为刻薄的小说，讽刺这对夫妇。
其次，是通过安德鲁·贝维尔本人的口述——他将人生故事讲给年轻的打字员兼作家艾达·帕滕扎（Ida Partenza）。
第三，是通过艾达·帕滕扎的回忆——她在离开贝维尔家50年后重返当年工作的贝维尔故居，那所宅邸已成为博物馆。
最后，是通过米尔德丽德·贝维尔隐藏的一本私人日记中所记录的文字。
《信任》是一部恢弘的作品，它深刻探讨了财富、权利、艺术、人际关系，以及当不同立场的人面对现实时，“真相”这一概念应如何被理解。
但是今天上午，我想与你们分享的，并非整部小说，而是书中的一句话。
这句话出现在艾达·帕滕扎的叙述部分。她有一天向父亲描述打字员那段经历时说：“我指尖敲打的文字属于过去，脑海中浮现的词句属于未来，而当下却成了一隙奇异的留白。”
现在，请大家想一想此刻的自己。各位在上纽大的学生时光已成过往，未来的人生尚在前方，而今天这个“当下”，正是“一隙奇异的留白”。
当下，始终是连接过去与未来之间的桥梁。人生的一项重要功课，就是努力赋予这座桥梁意义——去编织、再编织一段故事，把“你曾是谁”与“你将是谁”串联起来，书写真实的自己，成就丰盈的人生。
那么，我们该如何展开这份“生命的创作”？我愿向你们提出五点建议：
其一，请你写一段不仅关乎自己的故事。幸福研究早已清晰地指出，有意义的人生，关键在于你与他人之间的关系——无论是家人，还是朋友。诚然，关系总伴随着挑战与摩擦，但人本就是为共享人生而生。
其二，请你写一段拥有多个“副线剧情”的故事。专注于单一目标，也许你能比同时兼顾多样事务时做得更好——但这未必真的如此。而更可以确定的是，若人生只剩一个维度，你将变得单调乏味。
其三，试着去书写一个跨越多个地域的故事。你们在上纽大的求学经历，曾将你们带到这个世界上两三座伟大城市里生活。你们已经体会过，把自己放进一个全新的环境中，会带来多么丰富的刺激与成长。希望你们今后依然勇于探索、不断出发，在新的地方继续迎接灵感与惊喜的降临。
其四，试着书写一段带有喜剧色彩的故事。别对自己太过严肃。要明白，伟大喜剧的精髓，正是在于出其不意。我可以向你们保证，人生注定充满种种意想不到的惊喜。请为这些惊喜做好准备，也为其中那些令人失望的插曲准备好幽默的心态——因为，它们终将不可避免地到来。
第五点，也是最重要的一点：每当你重新书写自己的人生故事时，请将你的过往，与不止一个可能的未来相连。不要试图制定一条从A到B再到C、D的固定人生路线图。人生的轨迹从来无法被完全预设。与其执念于十年之后的模样，不如思考如何善用接下来的两三年——而后，在两三年后，再次思考、再次启程。
如果你愿意带着这五点建议，不断重写自己的人生故事，你会发现一个令人意想不到的现象：随着岁月的流转，你对过去的叙述也会悄然改变。
22岁时，你会以某种方式讲述自己十岁时的模样；到了32岁，你对那段童年又会有另一种理解；而当你42岁再次回望，你的眼光将再次不同。人生会不断带来对自身过往的新洞见。请欣然领受，感怀于心。
亲爱的2025届毕业生们，当你们即将启程，去追寻有价值、有意义的人生，去服务这个迫切需要你们的世界时，请允许我们——你们的老师们——在此寄予几份诚挚的期望：
愿你们享受技艺带来的纯粹快乐——那种源于将一件事做到极致的只有自己最明白的满足感；
愿你们享受职业带来的深层喜悦——那种因自身努力能够造福社会而生的光荣感；
愿你们被幸运眷顾，同时拥有分辨运气与能力的智慧，并由衷感恩那份偶得的好运；
愿你们在他人无从知晓的情境下，依然找到方法去帮助他们；
愿你们耐心、温和、包容，不陷于自满、自负或傲慢；
愿你们始终能够坦然承认自己的无知、疑惑、脆弱与不确定；
愿你们与值得尊重与信任的人，建立长久而深厚的情谊；
愿你们成为自己人生故事的作者，勇于书写与重写真实而动人的篇章，让过往与未来相互映照，彼此成就；
愿你们历经风雨后，懂得珍惜晴朗；也愿你们感受春光，始终怀抱希望；
愿你们能走出熟悉与舒适之地，在更辽阔的世界中，愈发珍视生命的多样与奇迹；
更愿你们常常重返上海，重返浦东，重返前滩。因为你们永远是上海纽约大学大家庭的一员，我们永远欢迎你们回家。
衷心祝贺你们！
?上下滑动浏览文字
Members of the Class of 2025,
Hernán Díaz is a cosmopolitan. He spent the first 25 years of his life living in Sweden, Argentina, and London. In 1999, he moved to New York so that he could do graduate study at New York University. Right now he lives in Brooklyn.
During your second semester as a student at NYU Shanghai, in the spring of 2022, Hernán Díaz published his second novel,Trust. During your fourth semester as a student at NYU Shanghai, in the spring of 2023,Trustwas awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
The book tells the story of Andrew Bevel and Mildred Bevel, a fictional couple from 100 years ago. The book is unusual because it tells Andrew and Mildred’s story in four different ways:
First, through the words of Harold Vanner, a writer who wrote a nasty novel about them.
Second, through the words of Andrew Bevel himself, as he spoke them to a young typist-writer named Ida Partenza.
Third, through the words of Ida Partenza herself, as she describes her return to the Bevel home, which had been turned into a museum, 50 years after she worked for Andrew.
And fourth, through the words of Mildred Bevel, as she wrote them into a secret diary.
Trustis a magnificent novel, with a lot to say about wealth, power, art, relationships, and how we should think about “truth” when people are looking at the world from very different perspectives. But this morning I want to focus on just one sentence from the book.
The sentence comes in the section where Ida Partenza is speaking. She describes a moment when she told her father what it had been like to be a typist. She says, “The word I was typing was always in the past, while the word I was thinking of was always in the future, which left the present oddly uninhabited.”
Think about yourself right now. Your life as a student at NYU Shanghai is now in the past. The rest of your life is now in the future. The present, today, is “oddly uninhabited.”
The present is always a bridge between past and future. And much of the work of life is an effort to make that bridge meaningful. It is creating, and then re-creating, a story that links who you have been with who you will be, a story that is both authentic and gratifying.
How should you carry out that work of life? I have five modest suggestions to offer you today.
First, try to write a story that includes more characters than just yourself. The research on happiness shows clearly that the key to a meaningful life lies in your relationships with others – with family and friends. To be sure, relationships add challenges and difficulty, but at the end of the day people are meant to live shared lives.
Second, try to write a story that has several sub-plots. If you focus on just one thing, you might do that one thing better than if you are doing several different kinds of things. But you probably won’t. And you will definitely be a boring person.
Third, try to write a story that is set in more than one location. Your experience at NYU Shanghai has pushed you to live in two or three of the world’s great cities. You know how stimulating it is to implant yourself into a new place. Make sure you keep experiencing that kind of stimulation.
Fourth, write a story that is partly a comedy. Don’t take yourself too seriously. And understand that the essence of great comedy is surprise. I promise you that your life will include many, many surprises. Be ready for them, and be ready to find the humor in those surprises that are disappointing because, inevitably, they will come.
Fifth, and most importantly, whenever you rewrite your story, link your past to more than one possible future. Don’t try to create a rigid life plan that will go from A to B to C to D. Instead, understand that there is no way to be confident about what your life will be like in ten years. Think about how you might spend your next two or three years well, and then in two or three years plan to do it again.
If you continuously re-write your story with those five suggestions in mind, you will notice something surprising. As you re-write your story over the years, what you say about your past will change. At the age of 22, you will write one thing about what it was like when you were ten years old. When you re-write your story at age 32, you will say something different about what it was like when you were ten. And when you re-write it again at age 42, your understanding of your childhood will have changed once more. Life will keep bringing you new insights into your own past. Relish those insights. Be grateful for them.
Members of the NYU Shanghai Class of 2025, as you embark on lives of worth and purpose, lives of service to a world that desperately needs you, let me conclude by sharing a few hopes that we, your teachers, hold for you:
May you enjoy the special pleasures of craft — the private satisfaction of doing a task as well as it can be done.
May you enjoy the special pleasures of profession — the added satisfaction of knowing that your efforts promote a larger public good.
May you be blessed with good luck, and also with the wisdom to appreciate when you have been lucky rather than skillful.
May you find ways to help others under circumstances where they cannot possibly know that you have done so.
May you be patient, and gentle, and tolerant, without becoming smug, self-satisfied, or arrogant.
May you always be able to confess ignorance, doubt, vulnerability, and uncertainty.
May you build long and loving relationships with people whom you respect and trust.
May you be an author who writes and re-writes a satisfying story that connects your past to your future in authentic and gratifying ways.
May you know enough bad weather that you never take sunshine for granted, and enough good weather that your faith in the coming of spring is never shaken.
May you be able to travel frequently beyond the places that are comfortable and familiar, so that your appreciation for the miraculous diversity of life grows ever stronger.
And may your steps lead you often back to Shanghai. Back to Pudong. Back to the New Bund. For you will always be members of the NYU Shanghai family. And we will always be happy to welcome you home.
Congratulations.
教务长衛周安
代际之间的差异，
以及我们如何彼此学习
“
?上下滑动浏览文字
童校长、Dopico教务长、雷蒙常务副校长、同事们、尊贵的来宾和亲爱的朋友们：
让我们一起，向2025届杰出的毕业生们致以最热烈的祝贺！亲爱的同学们，我谨代表上海纽约大学，向你们送上最诚挚的祝福。衷心祝贺你们顺利完成学业，迎来这一光辉时刻！你们的成就令人钦佩，我们为你们感到无比自豪！
今年，我自己也将从上海纽约大学“毕业”。在这一重要时刻，我不禁思考起代际之间的差异，以及我们如何彼此学习——
不同代际的经历如何影响我们对生活的态度？又如何影响我们与前辈、后辈的相处方式？我们如何在代际之间相互学习？而当我们自己步入新的代际阶段，又会发生什么样的转变？
今天我想谈谈那些将我们与过去和未来联结起来的“线索”——它们如何帮助我们不断学习，也帮助他人学习。这些线索在我们生活的多个层面中无处不在：作为家庭的一员，我们与祖辈相连，也联结着后人；作为一个学习型社群的成员，我们彼此学习，也传递所学——比如，教授不仅教学生，也从学生身上学习；作为特定文化，甚至多种文化中的一员，我们生活在多元文化的共同体中；作为社会变革的受益者，我们也将塑造未来的趋势；而你们，作为毕业生的一员，既是前八届上纽大毕业生的继承者，也将为后来者开辟前路。
代际之间彼此交织，如同织锦中交错的丝线，把我们紧紧联结在一起。尽管人们常说“历史的教训就是历史没有教训”，但代际之间的联系仍然真实而深刻。那些联系源自前人的经验、奋斗、故事和智慧——这些线索被小心地编织着，有时带着遗憾，但始终怀抱对未来的希望。而未来，就像织布机上尚未完成的锦缎，等待我们在此刻用双手去续写。正是通过我们的双手、选择和想象力，这些线索才不断延展。我们既不是为了割断与过去的联系，也不是为了紧抱过去无法前行，而是要将其传承下去，必要时重新修补、再度想象，并在织锦中加入属于我们自己的光亮图案。
我想简要谈谈代际差异是如何体现在我们对时间、空间的理解和人际交往方式上的。
关于时间与空间，不同世代的体验往往截然不同。张爱玲在她的上海名作《半生缘》开篇中对此有过非常精彩的描写：
“对于三十岁以后的人来说，十年八年不过是指缝间的事，而对于年轻人而言，三年五年就可以是一生一世。”
你也许认同这段话，也许不认同，也许还没想过，但我想说，也许我们可以既认同也有所保留。回想你们大学时光中最具标志性的事件之一——新冠疫情——是否感觉就像发生在昨天？我们曾经历隔离、戴口罩、以及似乎不间断地做核酸……但同时，它又仿佛是一个遥远得不真实的记忆，令人难以置信。而说到今天的毕业典礼和你们人生的新阶段，是不是在一瞬间还觉得遥不可及，转眼间又突然到了眼前？
我们还可以从通讯技术的发展来观察时间与空间的变化。18世纪时，一封从北京写给教皇的信需要先历经万里到广州，搭船漂洋过海到达欧洲，可能需要九个月；再等教皇回信，经过同样艰难的返程，总共可能耗时两年。而当信抵达时，往往早已过时。后来，电报、电话、广播、电视的出现彻底改变了这一切。比如在1930年代，英国国王首次能直接向全球人民发表讲话，不仅是在英国，还有加拿大、澳大利亚、新西兰……那时远洋旅行尚需数周，飞机也要飞行数日，想象一下人们听到国王声音时的震撼。
而1980年代，我在北京做博士论文研究时，若想给家里打电话，得先预约，再等几个小时回拨。如今，我们手持手机，随时随地与世界各地交流，地铁上能看电影，五大洲可以远程开会，连毕业典礼都可以全球直播！
时间、空间、距离的深刻变革已悄然重塑了我们对世界的理解，也重塑了我们自身的位置。这样的变化还将继续。
至于不同世代间的互动，更是众说纷纭。或许每一代人都觉得自己的经历是独一无二的，前人无法体会，后人也难以理解。美国作家马克·吐温曾写道：“我14岁时，觉得我父亲愚不可及，几乎无法忍受他的存在。但等我21岁时，却惊讶地发现他在这七年里竟学到了那么多。”不知他的孩子们长大后是否也会这样看他。
就像我们身处多个语境中，我们也同时属于多个世代。代际的鸿沟是双向的：我们有时轻视年长者，却终将成为曾被我们轻视的那一代人。而当我们步入“长辈”行列时，在真正的长辈面前，仍可能觉得自己是个孩子。比如中国伟大的诗人、食谱作家袁枚就写道：“及余鬓已星星，而母视余犹婴孩。每入室，必授以果饵，夏则审衣之厚薄，冬则絮问寒暖，饮膳必亲检视。余亦戏作儿态，以娱其意，遂忘其身之既老。呜呼！及失慈荫，始惊身之六十有二矣。”
这种角色转变、视角互换的过程，正是你们在大学四年中经历的旅程，也将伴随你们一生。你们从大一到大四，从本科生到毕业生，从学生到老师，从受教者到施教者，将逐步成为下一代人仰望的榜样。而你们，也依然在向前辈学习。代际之间通过同一条线相互交织。正如我们从孔子身上学到的“学贵在思，思贵在通”。你们在此所学，并非只是博闻多识，更在于贯通融会。换句话说，真正的智慧来自我们对彼此之间紧密联系的认知——跨越世代、贯通过去、现在与未来的一段持续旅程，永远向上，永远向前。
亲爱的2025届毕业生，当你们即将开启人生新篇章时，请继续在代际之间倾听与学习。你们的智慧，来自传承，也将在传承中成就一个更丰富、更美好的世界。
正如美国出生的英国诗人T.S.艾略特所写：
“去年的话属于去年的语言，
明年的话等待新的声音。
每一个终点，也是一种开始。”
2025届毕业生，衷心祝贺你们！
?上下滑动浏览文字
Chancellor Tong! Provost Dopico! Vice-Chancellor Lehman! Colleagues! Distinguished Guests! And Friends!
Join me in saluting our great students of the class of 2025! Dear students, on behalf of the whole NYU Shanghai community, from the bottom of my heart I offer you warm congratulations upon your graduation. We are really, really proud of you for reaching this glorious moment.
This year, as I myself prepare to graduate from NYU Shanghai, I have been reflecting on generational difference and on how much we all learn from one another. How do the experiences of each generation affect our approach to life, and our attitude towards the generations that precede and follow us? How can we learn from one another across generations, and what changes as we ourselves move from one generation to another?
Today I want to talk about the threads that bind us, in the present, to both the past and the future, and how we can continuously learn from that connection and help others to do the same. These threads pertain to all of us in the multiple contexts in which we all exist. They connect us as members of a family in which we are descended from our ancestors and linked to those who follow. They connect us as a community of learners in which we learn from one another and pass on what we have learned—for instance professors don’t just teach students but also themselves learn from students. They connect us as representatives of a particular culture, or more than one, living as we do in multicultural communities. They connect us as beneficiaries of various kinds of social change who ourselves will set trends for the future. And they connect YOU as members of a graduating class, who follow in the footsteps of eight classes of NYU Shanghai students, and set the pathways for the classes yet to come.
Generations are intertwined like threads in a tapestry that bind us all together, despite the claim that “the lesson of history is that there is no lesson of history.” Those generational threads are spun from the experiences of those who came before us, the threads of the stories, the struggles, and the wisdom of the past, which have been woven with care, sometimes with regret, and always with hope for a future. That future awaits us, like an unfinished tapestry still on the loom for us, here, now, in the present, to weave. It is through our hands, our choices, and our imaginations, that the threads carry us forward. We are here neither to cut ties with the past, nor to cling to the past so tightly that we cannot move on. We are here to carry it onward, reworking, reimagining, repairing where needed — and to stitch our own new bright patterns into the fabric of what is to come.
I would like to reflect briefly on how generational differences show up in different ways, especially in how we understand time and space and how we interact with one another.
When it comes to time and space, you can really see generational differences in how people experience them. This is perfectly expressed in the opening lines of Zhang Ailing’s great Shanghai novel “Half a Lifetime’s Romance” 半生缘 Ban Sheng Yuan, which reads like this:
“Time does fly for the middle aged: a decade whips by in the blink of an eye, a flick of the fingertips. When you’re still young, even three or four years, maybe five, can seem an entire lifetime.”
Perhaps you agree with that or perhaps you do not or perhaps you aren’t sure, but I’d like to suggest that we can both agree and disagree with that idea simultaneously. For instance, thinking back to what may have been one of the defining experiences of your college years, in other words the pandemic, doesn’t it seem like just yesterday that we were quarantining and masking and testing seemingly endlessly? And yet at the same time doesn’t it seem like just a distant and almost unreal memory that you can hardly believe actually happened? And looking forward to graduation and the next chapter of your lives, doesn’t it seem in one moment like a distant aspiration and in the next moment it has come galloping towards you and suddenly it’s here!
Another way of thinking about this is in terms of the speed in which we can communicate across vast distances and how much that has changed with new technologies. Back in the 18th century, 300 years ago, it took 2 years for European missionaries at the court in Beijing to receive a response to a request for guidance from the Pope in Rome. Their letter had to make the weeks long journey to Guangzhou, to be carried to Europe on a ship which might take 9 months to reach port and then be delivered. Then, after carefully considering his reply, the Pope had to send it all the way back which could take another year. And by the time the answer reached Beijing it was often, well, outdated. And then telecommunications revolutionized everything! First through the telegraph and the telephone and radio and television, and later with the internet. In the 1930s, for example, the King of England was able for the first time directly to address people all around the world, reaching not just the United Kingdom but Canada and Australia and New Zealand. Just imagine what that must have felt like, at a time when weeks-long ocean travel was still quite routine and even by airplane it still took days to fly across the world.
In the 1980s when I was living in Beijing doing dissertation research, when I wanted to call home I had to place a call and wait for a call back, which usually took at least a couple of hours. And now we have our mobile phones, and can chat across the world whenever and wherever we want to; we can stream a movie while we’re on the subway; we can run a seminar with participants in five continents—and we can stream a graduation ceremony across the world!!
And this profound shift in how we experience time, space and distance has quietly transformed our whole understanding of the world and our place in it, and those changes will undoubtedly continue.
When it comes to how different generations interact, there is no shortage of opinions about what each thinks of the others. It is probably true to say that every generation thinks that its own experiences, both good and bad, are unprecedented—we are all convinced that nothing like our own experience ever happened to those who came before us and that those who follow will never have quite the degree and quality of wisdom that we ourselves have gained from our own experiences nor the same skills for dealing with them. The American writer Mark Twain put it aptly when he famously wrote that “When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.” I wonder how his children felt about him as they grew up. 
Just as we exist in multiple contexts at once, we also belong to multiple generations simultaneously. The generational gap works in both directions, for while we may sometimes feel scorn for older generations, we ourselves are always morphing into the very generation we once scorned. Yet as we join that older generation, we may still feel like children in the presence of elders, as for instance the great Chinese poet and cookbook author Yuan Mei, who wrote regarding his mother that:
“Long after my own hair was grey she went on treating me as though I were a child. When I went to her room she never failed to give me a sweetmeat or a slice of melon, make sure if it was hot that I was not too warmly dressed, or if it was cold, that I was well wrapped up, and to satisfy herself that I was getting wholesome things to eat and drink. I, of course, played up to her view of me as a small child, and ended by quite forgetting that I was a battered old man. Indeed it was not till I lost her that I fully realized I was a man of sixty-two.”
This cycle of becoming, of watching roles reverse and perspectives shift, is precisely what you have experienced these past four years and will continue to experience. And as you transition from freshman to senior, from undergraduate to graduate, from student to teacher and from mentee to mentor, you will become the generation to which the next generation looks for guidance and example, even as you continue to look up to the generations that preceded you. The generations are woven together by a single thread just as, as Confucius taught us, and as you have learned here, understanding comes from learning a wide variety of things and then tracing the threads that connect them all. In short, wisdom begins when we acknowledge our interdependence, the ties that bind us together across generations, linking past, present and future in one continuous journey, upward, and onward, always.
So, class of 2025, as you go forth into the next phase of your lives, continue to listen and learn across generations, knowing that receiving and transmitting wisdom will help to create a richer and better world for us all.
As the American-British poet TS Eliot wrote
“For last year’s words belong to last year’s language.
And next year’s words await another voice.
And to make an end is to make a beginning.”
Congratulations, class of 2025!
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
跨越文化、连接世界：上纽大2025届本科毕业生荣耀启程！
世界著名钢琴家孔祥东上海纽约大学2025届本科生毕业典礼致辞