著名演员、导演、作家陈冲上海纽约大学2026届毕业典礼致辞

上海纽约大学2026届毕业典礼致辞
著名演员、导演、作家 陈冲
致辞以英文发表，以下为中文译文和英文原文
祝贺你们，上海纽约大学2026届毕业生！
能与你们共庆这个里程碑，我感到非常荣幸和喜悦。
我能对你们说些什么呢？我想，你们中的许多人，早就比我在你们这个年龄的时候，准备得更加充分了——至少在知识和机遇方面。而我也相信，如果你们今天还尚未发现，也一定会在不久的未来找到属于自己的使命感与生命意义。
我已度过了漫长的人生，却依然无法宣称自己找到了某种终极的答案或真理。和大多数人一样，我仍然在“活着这些问题”——正如里尔克在《给青年诗人的信》中所写的那样。
几个月前，上纽大请我为毕业典礼公告提供一段个人简介。以前，我也曾经为不同机构提供过很多次。而每一次，当我斟酌那些词句的时候，总觉得它们所描述的人好像并不是我。简介里写的每一件事都是事实——可真正关键的事，却似乎不在其中。
所以今天，我就跟你们分享一些构成我内在核心的、看不见却有体温的东西吧。
十四岁那年，我从高中射击队里被上海电影制片厂选中，在电影《井冈山》摄制组里饰演一名女游击队员。
虽然我没有受过多少正规的教育，但我对阅读始终怀着深切的渴望。那时，大多数文学作品都被禁绝，书籍极其稀少。但我的外婆在阁楼上一个破皮箱里偷偷藏了一批书。每逢我生病，她便允许我借一本到床上读。鼻塞、胸闷、喉咙灼痛——然而在那些时刻，我比童年任何其它时候都活得更加充实。
那个年代，人们还不能自由旅行。然而十五岁时，我因拍摄电影《青春》去黄山拍外景。那是我第一次真正体验到大自然。
花岗岩的峰峦从云海中拔地而起。
古松被数百年的风雕刻出奇异的姿态。
而我们每天的食品，就沿着陡峭的石阶，一点一点被挑上山去。
大约也是在那个年纪，“上帝”这两个字进入了我的词汇。而其意义，并不是通过宗教，而是通过黄山千变万化的光影与色彩，向我显现出来。
回望过去，在我成长的岁月里，对书的饥渴与对自然的爱，一直抚育和支撑着我——无论在顺遂的时候，还是在绝望的时候，尤其是在绝望的时候。在那些深渊，阅读总会带来一线微光，使我重拾信念；而自然，则让我重新感受敬畏。
从二十岁出头到三十岁中期，我几乎是不加选择地阅读——惠特曼、布莱克、里尔克、黑塞、D. H. 劳伦斯、伍尔夫、奈保尔、马尔克斯、略萨——这些在西方司空见惯的作家，却都是我在国内时从未接触过的。
记得有一阵子，我深深沉迷于米兰·昆德拉的作品之中。他替那些我曾感受过却无法言说的经历找到了语言。后来，我在上“黑色电影”的课程中知道了雷蒙德·钱德勒和达希尔·哈米特，又同样热烈地坠入了侦探小说的世界。
我天性有些孤僻。能与作者们（好些早已离开了人世）建立一种精神上的相遇，是那么的珍贵，也极具拯救力量。
有很多次，当失败沉重得难以承受时，我都会翻开惠特曼的《草叶集》，在那里聆听一个理解失败、却毫不以之为耻的声音。
它说：
“我是一个年迈的炮兵……
我讲述我堡垒遭受轰击的情景——
我又回到了那里。
进攻的炮火再次响起……浓烟……齐射。
我看见敌人的炮火攻破的缺口——
迅速被填补……毫无迟疑。
我呼吸着令人窒息的硝烟……
然而——
这失败是光荣的。”
……
“败仗和胜仗是以同一种精神打下来的。
为死者我击响胜利的战鼓，
为他们我的号角吹出最嘹亮最欢乐的乐曲。
永生，那些失败的人们，
那些战船沉海的人们，葬身海底的人们！
那些战败的将军，倒下的英雄们，
那无数个无名小卒们，
你们将跟最伟大的英雄一同永生！”
在这种将胜利与失败置于同一精神尺度上的理解里，我感到自己的尊严与勇气被确认，伤口被抚慰，而灵魂也因此变得更加辽阔。
借用丽贝卡·索尔尼的一句话：
“我消失在书本里……就像一个人跑进森林。”
说到跑进森林，让我回到大自然这个话题。这句话同样适用于真实世界。当你看着树丛间透出闪烁的落日时，你会忽然宁静下来，觉得与宇宙融为一体。
1988年，我曾在澳洲的沙漠里拍摄电影《英雄之血》，前后一个多月。那段遥远的记忆如今早已模糊，但我仍然清楚地记得那条明亮的银河、那些轮廓朦胧沙丘和岩石群。
还有那些被我拾起、后来又遗失了的牡蛎化石。它们曾静静躺在沙漠灌木之下（更早以前的海底）沉睡了数亿年，直到我的手将它们捡起。宇宙是多么的神秘和美妙！
我至今仍无法准确地定义幸福。
但在为我的新电影《蒙特利尔，我的美人》学习法语时，我接触到了法语里“幸福”这个词：bonheur。
Bon是“好”，heur是“时辰”。法国本土人也许不会这么想，但我情不自禁地问自己：幸福，也许就是“一个美好的时辰”？
一个美好的时辰，听起来是可以达到的。
也许，南半球夜空下那些充满惊异的时刻，就是幸福。
还有，那些阅读书本的静谧时光。
我曾读到，幸福就是溶入于某种完整而伟大的事物之中；而当它来临时，会像睡眠一样自然。
这正是我有时的感受——读一本书，或站在辽阔的天空之下：我溶化在超越自身的某种存在之中。
你们每一个人，都将发现属于自己的幸福定义。
不要让任何人替你定义它。
你真正的本质，并不是你的履历，而是那隐秘、不可触碰的，生命的结晶——那只有你才真正知晓的自己。
明天，你们将离开这个舒适的校园，走进一个纷乱的世界，正式成为成年人。
但请永远保留并滋养你们心中的那个好奇的孩子。
继续用孩子般的惊奇去感受身边那些微小的奇迹——无论是一只金色的甲虫，一朵粉色的云，一只蓝色的蝴蝶，一本书，或者任何令你感到神奇的事物。
请始终向这些瞬间带来的顿悟敞开自己。
也许这样说有些冒昧，但我想，你们中的大多数人大概不必为下一顿饭发愁。那样的艰难，在某种意义上反而会带来清晰。而你们可能面对的，是另一种更加难以名状的东西：在一个被无尽欲望驱动的世界里的，一种存在性的焦虑。
因此，找到那些令你着迷和喜悦的事物，就显得更加重要——那些能在精神上支撑你的东西——那些让你能够与你的命运融为一体的东西。
最后，亲爱的年轻人们——请去爱吧。
去爱太阳与月亮，河流与鱼群，山川与动物。
去爱另一个人。
深深地、热烈地，一次又一次地去爱。
无论你们在互联网上听到什么。
就我个人而言，爱情所带来的脆弱、谦卑、心碎与狂喜，是生命所赋予我最真实、也最具蜕变力量的体验之一。那些灼热发光的瞬间，如星辰般留存在我的记忆里——鲜明而恒久；而其间漫长的岁月，却渐渐消融成一片混沌、遥远的迷雾。
我想用路易丝·厄德里奇在《彩绘鼓》中的一段文字作为结尾：
“生活会击碎你。没有人能保护你不受其伤害，而独自生活也不能——因为孤独本身也会以它的渴望击碎你。你必须去爱。你必须去感受。这就是你为什么来到这个世界的缘由。你来到人间，就是为了冒着心碎的风险。你来到世上，就是为了被彻底吞没。而当有一天你真的破碎了、被背叛了、被遗弃了、受伤了，或者死亡从你身旁掠过——请让自己坐在一棵苹果树下，听着一颗颗熟透的苹果落在你周边，挥霍着它们的甘甜。告诉自己：你已经尽你所能，尝过了尽可能多的果实。”
谢谢你们——也再次祝福于你们。
上下滑动阅览英文原文
University leadership, distinguished guests, and the Class of 2026 — congratulations on this remarkable achievement.
It is a great honor and pleasure for me to celebrate this special day with you.
What can I say to you? I suspect many of you are already far better prepared than I was at your age — at least in terms of knowledge and opportunity. And I trust that, if you have not already found it, you will in time discover your own sense of purpose and meaning.
I have lived a long life, and I still cannot claim to have found any ultimate answer or truth. Like most people, I continue to live the questions, as Rilke wrote inLetters to a Young Poet.
A couple of months ago, I was asked to provide a short bio for the commencement announcement. I’ve done this many times before for different organizations. And each time, as I arrange the words, I feel as if they are describing someone else. Everything it says is true — yet what genuinely matters always seems to be missing.
So today, I would like to share with you something of that invisible, warm interior that forms my core.
At the age of fourteen, I was picked from my high school rifle team to play a girl soldier in a film calledJing Gang Shanat the Shanghai Film Studio.
Though I had little formal education, I had a deep thirst for reading. At the time, most literary works were banned, and books were scarce. But my maternal grandmother had kept a secret stash of books in the attic. She would let me borrow one on my sick days. Nose stuffed, chest congested, throat burning — I lived more fully in those moments than at any other time in my childhood.
In those years, people couldn’t travel freely. Yet at fifteen, I was lucky enough to be sent on location to Huangshan for the filmYouth. It was the first time I truly experienced nature.
The granite spires rising out of a sea of clouds.
The pines sculpted by centuries of wind.
The steep stone steps along which our daily provisions were carried up the mountain.
Around that age, the word “God” entered my vocabulary. And its meaning revealed itself to me — not through religion, but through the ever-changing light, shadow, and color of the Yellow Mountain.
Looking back, the hunger for books and the encounter with nature in my formative years have sustained me throughout my life — through both the good times and the desperate ones, especially the desperate ones. In those depths, reading always brought a sliver of light that restored my faith, and nature my sense of awe.
From my early twenties to my mid-thirties, I read almost indiscriminately — Whitman, Blake, Rilke, Hesse, D. H. Lawrence, Ana?s Nin, Naipaul, Márquez, Llosa — writers that many in the West take for granted, but whom I had never encountered before.
There was a period when I was deeply immersed in Milan Kundera, who gave language to experiences I had felt but could not articulate. Later, I discovered Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett through a film noir class and fell into detective novels with equal passion.
I am by nature a loner. And I found communion with authors — many of them long gone from this world — deeply rewarding, and healing.
Numerous times in my life, when failure felt too heavy to bear, I opened Whitman’s Leaves of Grass, and met a voice that understood defeat… without shame.
It says:
“I am an old artillerist… I tell of my fort’s bombardment —
I am there again.
Again the attacking cannon… the smoke… the volleys.
I see the gaps cut by the enemy’s fire —
quickly filled… no delay.
I breathe the suffocating smoke…
and yet —
the defeat is honorable.”
……
“Battles are lost in the same spirit in which they are won.
I beat and pound for the dead;
I raise my horn and play my loudest and gayest for them.
Vivas to those who have fail’d!
And to those whose war-vessels sank in the sea!
And to those themselves who sank in the sea!
And to all generals that lost engagements, and all overcome heroes!
And the numberless unknown heroes equal to the greatest heroes known!”
In this equation of victory and defeat, I found my dignity and courage affirmed, my wounds salved, and my soul expanded.
To borrow from Rebecca Solnit:
“I disappeared into books… like someone running into the woods.”
And speaking of running into the woods, let me return to the topic of nature. That phrase is equally true of the real world, where you look at a shimmering sunset, filtered through tall trees, and feel stilled — at one with the universe.
In 1988, I spent a month in the Australian desert filmingThe Blood of Heroes. Much of that distant memory has faded, but I can still see the luminous Milky Way, the faint outline of dunes, the distant rock formations.
And the mussel fossils I picked up — and then lost. They had lain untouched under desert shrubs, which had earlier been the bottom of the sea, for hundreds of millions of years, before my hand found them. I was awestruck by the mystery of the universe.
I can’t quite define what happiness is. But when I was learning French for my latest film,Montréal, My Beautiful, I came across the French word for happiness: bonheur. “Bon” means good, and “heur” means hour. Native speakers may not think of it this way, but I couldn’t help believing that happiness might simply be “a good hour.”
A good hour feels attainable.
Perhaps those wonder-struck hours under the Southern sky are happiness.
Or the quiet hours spent reading a book.
I once read that happiness is to be dissolved into something complete and great — and that when it comes, it comes as naturally as sleep.
That is how I have felt, at times — reading a book, or standing beneath a vast sky: dissolved into something larger than myself.
Each of you will discover your own definition of happiness.
Do not let anyone else define it for you.
Your true essence is not your résumé, but the secret, untouchable, crystallized inner life that only you can know.
Tomorrow, you will leave this comfortable cocoon and enter a chaotic world. You will become, officially, adults. But please — forever keep and nurture the curious child within you.
Continue to experience the small miracles around you with a child’s sense of wonder — whether it is a golden beetle, a pink cloud, a blue butterfly, a book, or anything that feels miraculous to you.
Stay open to the epiphanies these moments bring.
I may sound presumptuous, but I imagine few of you will need to worry about your next meal. That kind of hardship, in a way, offers clarity. What you may face instead is something more diffuse: a kind of existential anxiety in a world driven by endless desire.
It becomes all the more important, then, to find what enchants you — what sustains you spiritually — what allows you to merge with your destiny.
And finally, dear young people — fall in love. With the sun and the moon, with rivers and fish, with mountains and animals. With another human being. Intensely. Deeply. Again and again. Despite what you may hear on the internet.  
Personally, I have found that the vulnerability, humility, heartbreak, and rapture that love brings are among the most authentic and transformative experiences life can offer. Those moments of luminous intensity remain in my memory like stars — vivid and enduring — while the stretches of time between them dissolve into a soft and distant haze.
I’ll leave you with a passage fromThe Painted Drumby Louise Erdrich:
“Life will break you. Nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won’t either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. You have to love. You have to feel. It is the reason you are here on earth. You are here to risk your heart. You are here to be swallowed up. And when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. Tell yourself that you tasted as many as you could.”
Thank you — and congratulations.
▼
推 / 荐 / 阅 / 读
去爱，去好奇，去更新自己：上纽大2026届毕业生整装出发！
拨穗，礼成，出发！上纽2026毕业典礼学位授予仪式全记录