杜克大学反对疫情歧视，校长呼吁包容、信任和尊重

私立研究型大学·达勒姆市 ·北卡罗来纳州 · 美国
Research University, Durham, NC, USA.
·······
Dear Colleagues,
I have been deeply disturbed by recent reports of bias incidents targeting Chinese, Chinese-American, and Asian individuals throughout the United States. Meeting the global challenge of COVID-19 calls perhaps as never before on our common humanity and regard for others; it cannot be allowed to become a cause for scapegoating, bias, or hatred.
近日有关美国各地歧视中国人、美籍华人和亚洲人的报道令我深感不安。应对2019冠状病毒病这一全球性挑战比以往任何时候都更需要呼吁我们的共同人性和对他人的尊重，而不应使之成为寻找替罪羊、偏见或仇恨的原因。
Duke has benefitted from a vibrant relationship with China since well before we became a university. Our very first international student, Han Jiaozhun, or Charlie Soong, came to what was then Trinity College in 1880 from Hainan province. And we take pride in Duke Kunshan University, our innovative joint venture in Jiangsu province. Over the decades, thousands of Chinese and Chinese-American students, faculty, staff, and visitors have come to our campus to study, work, conduct research, and treat patients. These colleagues, classmates, friends, and neighbors are a vitally important part of our university community.
早在建校之前，杜克就受益于与中国之间充满活力的关系。我们第一位留学生宋嘉树（原名韩教准）于1880年从海南省来到当时还是三一学院的杜克大学求学。我们也为坐落于江苏省的创新型合办大学——昆山杜克大学——而感到骄傲。几十年来，成千上万的中国和美籍华裔学生、教授、员工和访客来到杜克大学学习、工作、进行研究和医治病人。他们是我们的同事、同学、朋友和邻居，也是我们大学社区极其重要的一部分。
The recent spate of bias incidents across America not only reflects the most misguided, distorted, and base biases about the coronavirus, it is also thwarting the public health response to the virus’s spread. I want to be quite clear: Duke resoundingly condemns any discrimination or bias against our Asian or Asian-American neighbors, and we pledge to continue advocating forour shared valuesof inclusion, mutual trust, and respect.
最近在美国各地发生的一连串的偏见事件，不仅反映出对于新冠病毒最被误导、扭曲的基本偏见，而且阻碍了公共卫生对病毒传播的反应。我想非常明确地表示：杜克大学强烈谴责任何针对我们亚洲和亚裔美国友邻的歧视或偏见，并且我们承诺会继续倡导包容、相互信任和尊重的共同价值观。
To that end, Duke is prepared to provide assistance to students, staff, and faculty who may need it. If you believe you have experienced discrimination or harassment based upon your race, national origin or other protected identity, please contact the Office for Institutional Equity for assistance at919-684-8222oroie-help@duke.edu. You may also consider otherReporting Resourcesto address additional concerns.
为此，杜克大学将为任何有需要的学生、员工和教授提供帮助。如果您认为自己由于种族、国籍或其他受保护的身份而受到歧视或骚扰，请致电 (919) 684-8222 或发邮件至 oie-help@duke.edu 与机构公平办公室取得联系。同时您也可以选择通过其他举报途径处理额外的顾虑。
In these unsettling times, I encourage every person associated with Duke University to join me in supporting those among us who might need a kind word or some assistance—and to remember to take care of ourselves and one another as we meet the challenges ahead.
在这令人不安的特殊时期，我鼓励杜克大家庭的每一位成员和我一起，为我们当中有需要的人送上关怀和帮助，也请谨记照顾好自己和身边的人，共同应对前路的挑战。
Sincerely,
Vincent E. Price  
诚挚问候，
文森特·普莱斯
·······
原文发布于 杜克大学微信公众号
请点击【阅读原文】跳转至原文页面
推荐阅读
 
1
学生故事| 在昆山杜克大学就读是怎样一番体验？
2
学生视频| 昆山杜克大学本科生的一天
3
全面介绍 | 重量级团队为你介绍独一无二的昆山杜克本科教育
4
杜克品质 | “全美最具价值大学”杜克位列第八
关于昆山杜克大学
昆山杜克大学是一所由美国杜克大学（连续多年被权威机构U.S. News评为全美十所顶尖大学之一）和中国武汉大学（中国“双一流”大学/985大学/211大学）在江苏省昆山市合作创办的研究型综合性大学，也是唯一由全美排名前十的大学在华创建的中外合作大学。
关注“昆山杜克大学招生”公众号
获取最新最全的招生信息~
QQ线上答疑群 :
526124074
电子邮箱 :
china-applications@dukekunshan.edu.cn
官方网站 :
undergrad.dukekunshan.edu.cn/cn
阅读原文